{{Infobox settlement
| name=Abdu Rahiman Nagar (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Malappuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Tirurangadi
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=14.83
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=41993
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2831
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1076
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=78.89%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627552
| footnotes=
}}

== Abdu Rahiman Nagar (CT) (627552) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Abdu Rahiman Nagar (CT) is a town in the [[Tirurangadi]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 14.83 sq. km. and harbouring 7338 households with total population of 41993 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 25 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 385 km. Male population is 20220 and female population is 21773. Scheduled Caste population is 1992 and Scheduled Tribes population is 54. Census Location Code of the town is 627552<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 25 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 30 km. Railway station is at Parappanangadi at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1568 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 29


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 33129 (78.89%)
* Literate male population: 16285 (80.54%)
* Literate female population: 16844 (77.36%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 200 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Tirur (24 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 9 km .
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 9 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 42 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 55 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 6 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 28 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 18 km .
There are 10 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.

There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 10 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Tirurangadi (9 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (35 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (8 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (30 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Chethamangalam (48 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thenhippalam (8 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Moonniyur (11 km) .
 
There are 2 private Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Manjeri (38 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Malappuram (25 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Tirurangadi (9 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Tirurangadi (9 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Tavanur (30 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Tirurangadi (9 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Tirurangadi  (9 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Tirurangadi (9 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Abdu Rahiman Nagar (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Electric fans and chalk,Copra


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 5 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Tirurangadi tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Malappuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


