{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627842
|native_name=Adat (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Thrissur
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Thrissur]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=6.91
|elevation_m=
|population_total=5721
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=827
|population_blank1=2862
|population_blank2=2859
|female_per_1000_male=998
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Adat (CT) (627842) ==

Adat (CT) is a town in the [[Thrissur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 6.91 sq. km. and harbouring 1376 households with total population of 5721 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 9 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 290 km. Male population is 2862 and female population is 2859. Scheduled Caste population is 997 and Scheduled Tribes population is 2. Census Location Code of the town is 627842<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 9 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 86 km. Railway station is at Thrissur at a distance of 9 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2764 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 5057
* Literate male population: 2563 (89.55%)
* Literate female population: 2494 (87.23%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrissur (9 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 4 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 8 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 3 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 9 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 19 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 7 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Middle School is at Puranattukara (2 km) .
The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at Puranattukara (2 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Puranattukara (2 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thrissur (9 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (9 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (20 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Puzhakkal (4 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Chittilappilly (3 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (9 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (9 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Thrissur (9 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrissur (9 km) .
There is 1 private other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thrissur (9 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (9 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Thrissur (9 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (11 km) .
The nearest government Cinema Theatre is at Thrissur (9 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Adat (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.






[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


