{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628447
|native_name=Adichanalloor (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kollam
|subdivision_name2=Kollam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kollam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kollam]]
|Nearest city=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=16.88
|elevation_m=
|population_total=27240
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1613
|population_blank1=12559
|population_blank2=14681
|female_per_1000_male=1168
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Adichanalloor (CT) (628447) ==

Adichanalloor (CT) is a town in the [[Kollam]] taluka of [[Kollam]] district with an area of 16.88 sq. km. and harbouring 6741 households with total population of 27240 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kollam]] is at a distance of 22 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 65 km. Male population is 12559 and female population is 14681. Scheduled Caste population is 3607 and Scheduled Tribes population is 107. Census Location Code of the town is 628447<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 22 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 65 km. Railway station is at Paravoor at a distance of 16 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2790 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 40
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 23095
* Literate male population: 10788 (85.9%)
* Literate female population: 12307 (83.83%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 225 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Paravoor (16 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 18 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 7 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 2 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 24 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 8 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 4 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kottamkara (3 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (65 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (65 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kulasekharapuram (2 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kollam (22 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kollam (22 km) .
There is 1 private Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kollam (22 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kollam (22 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kollam (14 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kollam (22 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kollam (17 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kollam (17 km) .
There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.There are 4 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Adichanalloor (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Bricks,Metal products,Tiles


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Kollam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


