{{Infobox settlement
| name=Adinad (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kollam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Karunagappally
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=7.68
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=22250
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2897
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1097
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=83.79%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628365
| footnotes=
}}

== Adinad (CT) (628365) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Adinad (CT) is a town in the [[Karunagappally]] taluka of [[Kollam]] district with an area of 7.68 sq. km. and harbouring 5503 households with total population of 22250 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kollam]] is at a distance of 25 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 95 km. Male population is 10606 and female population is 11644. Scheduled Caste population is 1233 and Scheduled Tribes population is 48. Census Location Code of the town is 628365<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 25 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 95 km. Railway station is at Karunagappally at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2790 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 27


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 18643 (83.79%)
* Literate male population: 9100 (85.8%)
* Literate female population: 9543 (81.96%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 40 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Karunagappally (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 18 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 18 km .
There are 7 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 10 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Karunagappally (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (95 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (95 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kulasekharapuram (5 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kallelibhagom (6 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Vallikkavu (7 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Karunagappally (6 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Karunagappally (6 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Chavara  (40 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kulasekharapuram  (3 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kollam (25 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Karunagappally (6 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Kollam (28 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Public Library is at Karunagappally (6 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Adinad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Kerafed,Coir,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Karunagappally tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kollam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


