{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803305
|native_name=Adoor (M)
|subdivision_name3=Adoor
|subdivision_name2=Pathanamthitta
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Pathanamthitta]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Adoor]]
|Nearest city=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=20.82
|elevation_m=
|population_total=29171
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1401
|population_blank1=13741
|population_blank2=15430
|female_per_1000_male=1122
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Adoor (M) (803305) ==

Adoor (M) is a town in the [[Adoor]] taluka of [[Pathanamthitta]] district with an area of 20.82 sq. km. and harbouring 7911 households with total population of 29171 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Pathanamthitta]] is at a distance of 19 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 93 km. Male population is 13741 and female population is 15430. Scheduled Caste population is 3621 and Scheduled Tribes population is 38. Census Location Code of the town is 803305<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 49 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 93 km. Railway station is at Chengannur at a distance of 23 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2790 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: #N/A
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1200 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 15 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 19 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 19 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 18 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 18 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 29 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 38 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 7 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (93 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (50 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Thiruvalla (64 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Management Institutes in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Pandalam (13 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Thiruvalla (7 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Pathanamthitta (19 km) .
There are 2 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Pathanamthitta (19 km) .
There are 4 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 6 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 4 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Adoor (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Textiles,Metal  grill and  gate ,Food products


== Market and Banking ==
There are 10 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There are 3 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 13 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Pathanamthitta]]
[[Categories:Adoor]]
[[Categories:Pathanamthitta district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


