{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628173
|native_name=Aimanam (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kottayam
|subdivision_name2=Kottayam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kottayam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kottayam]]
|Nearest city=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=29.3
|elevation_m=
|population_total=34470
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1176
|population_blank1=16761
|population_blank2=17709
|female_per_1000_male=1056
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Aimanam (CT) (628173) ==

Aimanam (CT) is a town in the [[Kottayam]] taluka of [[Kottayam]] district with an area of 29.3 sq. km. and harbouring 8576 households with total population of 34470 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kottayam]] is at a distance of 6 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 160 km. Male population is 16761 and female population is 17709. Scheduled Caste population is 1562 and Scheduled Tribes population is 111. Census Location Code of the town is 628173<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 45 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 64 km. Railway station is at Kottayam at a distance of 6 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2469 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 38
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 27


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 30723
* Literate male population: 15043 (89.75%)
* Literate female population: 15680 (88.54%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 120 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kottayam (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 20 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Athirampuzha (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottayam (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (5 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Arpookara (8 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Ettumanoor (6 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kottayam (6 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Nattakam (6 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kottayam (6 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kottayam (6 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kottayam (6 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kottayam (6 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kottayam (6 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kottayam (6 km) .
There are 3 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Aimanam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Processed cocoa ,Paragon chappals


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kottayam]]
[[Categories:Kottayam]]
[[Categories:Kottayam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


