{{Infobox settlement
| name=Ajanur (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kasaragod
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Hosdurg
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=14.56
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=33079
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2271
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1153
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=77.97%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627169
| footnotes=
}}

== Ajanur (CT) (627169) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Ajanur (CT) is a town in the [[Hosdurg]] taluka of [[Kasaragod]] district with an area of 14.56 sq. km. and harbouring 7027 households with total population of 33079 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kasaragod]] is at a distance of 28 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 536 km. Male population is 15364 and female population is 17715. Scheduled Caste population is 666 and Scheduled Tribes population is 236. Census Location Code of the town is 627169<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 3 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 150 km. Railway station is at Kanhangad at a distance of 3 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3450 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 38
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 26


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 25791 (77.97%)
* Literate male population: 12455 (81.07%)
* Literate female population: 13336 (75.28%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 335 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kanhangad (3 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 4 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There are 5 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 9 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 9 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 7 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kanhangad (3 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (28 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (22 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Pariyaram (38 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kasaragod (28 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kasaragod (28 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kanhangad (3 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Pallikkara (11 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kanhangad (3 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kanhangad (3 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kanhangad (3 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Chittarikkal (40 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kanhangad (3 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 4 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Ajanur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Beedi,Steel  items,Food  items


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 4 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Towns in Hosdurg tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kasaragod district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


