{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627774
|native_name=Akathiyoor (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Talappilly
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Talappilly]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=5.12
|elevation_m=
|population_total=5847
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1141
|population_blank1=2763
|population_blank2=3084
|female_per_1000_male=1116
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Akathiyoor (CT) (627774) ==

Akathiyoor (CT) is a town in the [[Talappilly]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 5.12 sq. km. and harbouring 1451 households with total population of 5847 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 27 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 327 km. Male population is 2763 and female population is 3084. Scheduled Caste population is 980 and Scheduled Tribes population is 1. Census Location Code of the town is 627774<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 27 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 95 km. Railway station is at Guruvayoor at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 5086
* Literate male population: 2398 (86.79%)
* Literate female population: 2688 (87.16%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 500 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kunnamkulam (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 4 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 30 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 15 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Chiramanangad  (3 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Perumpilavu (3 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (27 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (32 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (27 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kodanad (3 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Guruvayoor (14 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kunnamkulam (6 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kunnamkulam (11 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kunnamkulam (6 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (27 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Karikkad (4 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Karikkad (4 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Karikkad (4 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kunnamkulam (6 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kunnamkulam (6 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Akathiyoor (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==


There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Talappilly]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


