{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628473
|native_name=Alamcode (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Chirayinkeezhu
|subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thiruvananthapuram]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Chirayinkeezhu]]
|Nearest city=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=8.74
|elevation_m=
|population_total=14762
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1689
|population_blank1=6768
|population_blank2=7994
|female_per_1000_male=1181
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Alamcode (CT) (628473) ==

Alamcode (CT) is a town in the [[Chirayinkeezhu]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 8.74 sq. km. and harbouring 3750 households with total population of 14762 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 40 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 40 km. Male population is 6768 and female population is 7994. Scheduled Caste population is 2349 and Scheduled Tribes population is 9. Census Location Code of the town is 628473<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 40 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 40 km. Railway station is at Chirayinkeezhu at a distance of 4 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1820 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 12479
* Literate male population: 5753 (85.0%)
* Literate female population: 6726 (84.14%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 350 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Attingal (1 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 15 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 8 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 4 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 9 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 22 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 7 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 7 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Attingal (1 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (40 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (40 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Nedumangad (30 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Nagaroor (4 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thiruvananthapuram (40 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Attingal (8 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Attingal (48 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Attingal (6 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Chemmaruthy (7 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Attingal (48 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kilimanoor (8 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Attingal (8 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Attingal (8 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Alamcode (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Chirayinkeezhu]]
[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


