{{Infobox settlement
| name=Alamcode (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Malappuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Ponnani
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=20.48
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=33918
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1656
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1146
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=81.71%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627564
| footnotes=
}}

== Alamcode (CT) (627564) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Alamcode (CT) is a town in the [[Ponnani]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 20.48 sq. km. and harbouring 7050 households with total population of 33918 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 65 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 350 km. Male population is 15798 and female population is 18120. Scheduled Caste population is 3960 and Scheduled Tribes population is 31. Census Location Code of the town is 627564<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 65 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 40 km. Railway station is at Kuttippuram at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2200 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 30
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 27714 (81.71%)
* Literate male population: 12969 (82.09%)
* Literate female population: 14745 (81.37%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Ponnani (15 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 15 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 15 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 15 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 15 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 15 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 18 km .
There are 5 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 15 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 11 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 9 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 9 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 5 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 4 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
There is 1 private Degree College of Science only in the town. 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Ponnani (15 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (28 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (28 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kuttippuram (15 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Tirur (15 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Edappal  (10 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Ponnani (15 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Ponnani (15 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 3 government Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Ponnani (15 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Tavanur (20 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Ponnani (15 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 7 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Edappal (10 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Alamcode (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ponnani tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Malappuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


