{{Infobox settlement
| name=Alappuzha (M + OG)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Ambalappuzha
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=65.57
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=240991
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=3675
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1069
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=13.23%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803299
| footnotes=
}}

== Alappuzha (M + OG) (803299) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Alappuzha (M + OG) is a town in the [[Ambalappuzha]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 65.57 sq. km. and harbouring 57415 households with total population of 240991 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 0 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 160 km. Male population is 116439 and female population is 124552. Scheduled Caste population is 5610 and Scheduled Tribes population is 669. Census Location Code of the town is 803299<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class I (Population > 1,00,000).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 0 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 58 km. Railway station is at Alappuzha at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2757 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 31889 (13.23%)
* Literate male population: 15831 (13.6%)
* Literate female population: 16058 (12.89%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 3800 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There are 4 Allopathic hospital facilitys in the town.
There are 3 Alternative Medicine hospitals in the town.
There are 11 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 2 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 2 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 40 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 15 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 342 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 24 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 16 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 22 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 11 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 15 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 7 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 10 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
There are 3 private Degree College of Science onlys in the town. 
 
 
There are 3 government Degree College of Arts and Commerces in the town. 
There are 2 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.There are 3 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (58 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (45 km) .
 
There is 1 government Medical College in the town.The nearest private Medical College is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Management Institute in the town.There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.There is 1 private Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Special School for Disableds in the town.There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 4 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 9 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.There are 3 private Old Age Homes in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 18 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 7 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Alappuzha (M + OG) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir,Sea foods,Rice


== Market and Banking ==
There are 19 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 15 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 20 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 9 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 18 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ambalappuzha tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Alappuzha district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


