{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627713
|native_name=Alathur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Alathur
|subdivision_name2=Palakkad
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Palakkad]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Alathur]]
|Nearest city=[[Palakkad (m)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=19.62
|elevation_m=
|population_total=26720
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1361
|population_blank1=12808
|population_blank2=13912
|female_per_1000_male=1086
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Alathur (CT) (627713) ==

Alathur (CT) is a town in the [[Alathur]] taluka of [[Palakkad]] district with an area of 19.62 sq. km. and harbouring 6096 households with total population of 26720 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Palakkad]] is at a distance of 25 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 300 km. Male population is 12808 and female population is 13912. Scheduled Caste population is 3045 and Scheduled Tribes population is 23. Census Location Code of the town is 627713<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Palakkad (m) at a distance of 25 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Coimbatore(m corp. )  at a distance of 68 km. Railway station is at Palakkad at a distance of 25 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2500 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 38
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 21391
* Literate male population: 10736 (83.82%)
* Literate female population: 10655 (76.59%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 700 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There are 2 Alternative Medicine hospitals in the town.
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 12 km .
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 16 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 14 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 3 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 8 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Koduvayur  (3 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (40 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (40 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (40 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Palakkad (30 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thrissur (40 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Vaniyamkulam- ii  (30 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Chittur (8 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Palakkad (25 km) .
There is 1 government other educational facilities in the town.There is 1 private other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Working Women's Hostel in the town.There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Palakkad (5 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Chittur (4 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Alathur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 6 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Palakkad]]
[[Categories:Alathur]]
[[Categories:Palakkad district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


