{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627783
|native_name=Alur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Talappilly
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Talappilly]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=7.3
|elevation_m=
|population_total=9807
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1343
|population_blank1=4610
|population_blank2=5197
|female_per_1000_male=1127
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Alur (CT) (627783) ==

Alur (CT) is a town in the [[Talappilly]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 7.3 sq. km. and harbouring 2412 households with total population of 9807 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 20 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 320 km. Male population is 4610 and female population is 5197. Scheduled Caste population is 809 and Scheduled Tribes population is 29. Census Location Code of the town is 627783<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 20 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 100 km. Railway station is at Guruvayoor at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 8493
* Literate male population: 4009 (86.96%)
* Literate female population: 4484 (86.28%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 200 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kunnamkulam (9 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 3 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 1 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 3 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Choondal (3 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kandanassery  (1 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (20 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (25 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kunnamkulam (9 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kunnamkulam (9 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (20 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Guruvayoor (25 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kunnamkulam (9 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Kandanasseri (1 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Eranellur (12 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Alur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Tiles


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Talappilly]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


