{{Infobox settlement
| name=Aluva (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Aluva
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=6.46
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=22428
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=3471
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1033
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803286
| footnotes=
}}

== Aluva (M) (803286) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Aluva (M) is a town in the [[Aluva]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 6.46 sq. km. and harbouring 5641 households with total population of 22428 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 15 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 240 km. Male population is 11031 and female population is 11397. Scheduled Caste population is 835 and Scheduled Tribes population is 90. Census Location Code of the town is 803286<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 18 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 18 km. Railway station is at Aluva at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3653 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1950 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 26 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 9 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 52 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 22 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 8 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Degree College of Arts onlys in the town.There are 5 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There are 2 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.There are 5 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (18 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalady (18 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (13 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kalamassery (7 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kakkanad (15 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalamassery (10 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Perumbavoor (16 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 2 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.There is 1 private stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 15 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Aluva (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Nylon net,Rubber products,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There are 17 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 12 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 6 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 8 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Aluva tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernakulam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


