{{Infobox settlement
| name=Amballur (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kanayannur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=10.82
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=11358
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1049
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1051
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=89.14%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628019
| footnotes=
}}

== Amballur (CT) (628019) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Amballur (CT) is a town in the [[Kanayannur]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 10.82 sq. km. and harbouring 2801 households with total population of 11358 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 20 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 210 km. Male population is 5537 and female population is 5821. Scheduled Caste population is 1157 and Scheduled Tribes population is 23. Census Location Code of the town is 628019<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 20 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 20 km. Railway station is at Kanjiramattom at a distance of 2 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3110 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 38
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 10124 (89.14%)
* Literate male population: 4988 (90.08%)
* Literate female population: 5136 (88.23%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 455 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrippunithura (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 3 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 10 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 3 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 3 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 25 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Mulamthuruthy  (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (12 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (10 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Arakunnam (8 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kochi (20 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalamassery (24 km) .
 
There are 2 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Mulamthuruthy  (4 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kochi (5 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kochi (2 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrippunithura (10 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kochi (3 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kochi (20 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Mulanthuruthy (5 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Amballur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Funiture,Curry power,Paint


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kanayannur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernakulam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


