{{Infobox settlement
| name=Amballur (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Mukundapuram
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=18.38
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=29341
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1596
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1050
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=88.02%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627921
| footnotes=
}}

== Amballur (CT) (627921) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Amballur (CT) is a town in the [[Mukundapuram]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 18.38 sq. km. and harbouring 7353 households with total population of 29341 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 16 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 280 km. Male population is 14308 and female population is 15033. Scheduled Caste population is 2168 and Scheduled Tribes population is 96. Census Location Code of the town is 627921<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 16 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 65 km. Railway station is at Puthukkad at a distance of 3 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 20


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 25825 (88.02%)
* Literate male population: 12729 (88.96%)
* Literate female population: 13096 (87.12%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 250 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrissur (16 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 2 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 13 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 25 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 13 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 11 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 12 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 15 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Puthukkad (5 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Irinjalakuda (17 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (16 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (16 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (16 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (16 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.There is 1 private Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Thrissur (16 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrissur (16 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Irinjalakuda (13 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thrissur (16 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (16 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Irinjalakuda (13 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Nenmenikkara (8 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 14 government Public Librarys in the town.There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Amballur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Cloth,Tiles,Ayurvedic product


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Mukundapuram tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


