{{Infobox settlement
| name=Ancharakandy (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kannur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=15.45
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=23030
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1490
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1163
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=87.35%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627242
| footnotes=
}}

== Ancharakandy (CT) (627242) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Ancharakandy (CT) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 15.45 sq. km. and harbouring 5245 households with total population of 23030 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 16 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 515 km. Male population is 10646 and female population is 12384. Scheduled Caste population is 370 and Scheduled Tribes population is 72. Census Location Code of the town is 627242<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 72 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 105 km. Railway station is at Kannur at a distance of 16 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2996 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 20116 (87.35%)
* Literate male population: 9313 (87.48%)
* Literate female population: 10803 (87.23%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kannur (16 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 4 km .
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 21 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 21 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 21 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 9 km .
There are 15 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 17 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thottada (21 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (105 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (40 km) .
 
There is 1 private Medical College in the town.The nearest private Medical College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (21 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kannur (21 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada (21 km) .
 
There are 2 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.There are 2 private Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kannur (16 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Pallikkunnu (7 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kannur (16 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kannur (16 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kannur (21 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 11 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Ancharakandy (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Beedi,Thread,Cinnamon oil


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 5 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 6 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


