{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803285
|native_name=Angamaly (M)
|subdivision_name3=Aluva
|subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Ernakulam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Aluva]]
|Nearest city=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=28.24
|elevation_m=
|population_total=33465
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1185
|population_blank1=16547
|population_blank2=16918
|female_per_1000_male=1022
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Angamaly (M) (803285) ==

Angamaly (M) is a town in the [[Aluva]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 28.24 sq. km. and harbouring 8405 households with total population of 33465 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 35 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 225 km. Male population is 16547 and female population is 16918. Scheduled Caste population is 1419 and Scheduled Tribes population is 68. Census Location Code of the town is 803285<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 35 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 35 km. Railway station is at Angamaly at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3653 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: #N/A
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1600 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 35 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 35 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 35 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 35 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 13 km .
There are 24 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 8 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 23 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 13 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 9 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 9 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 6 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (35 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalady (40 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (17 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kothamangalam (36 km) .
There are 2 private Management Institutes in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalamassery (19 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Aluva (12 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Perumbavoor (15 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Aluva (36 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Aluva (15 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 8 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Angamaly (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Transformer,Olio resin,Paint


== Market and Banking ==
There are 9 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 13 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 5 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Aluva]]
[[Categories:Ernakulam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


