{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627858
|native_name=Anthicad (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Thrissur
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Thrissur]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=7.48
|elevation_m=
|population_total=9826
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1313
|population_blank1=4637
|population_blank2=5189
|female_per_1000_male=1119
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Anthicad (CT) (627858) ==

Anthicad (CT) is a town in the [[Thrissur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 7.48 sq. km. and harbouring 2411 households with total population of 9826 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 10 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 310 km. Male population is 4637 and female population is 5189. Scheduled Caste population is 1235 and Scheduled Tribes population is 19. Census Location Code of the town is 627858<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 10 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 90 km. Railway station is at Thrissur at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2764 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 8694
* Literate male population: 4098 (88.38%)
* Literate female population: 4596 (88.57%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrissur (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 22 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 15 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Manalur (3 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (23 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Nattika (6 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Paralam (6 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Thrissur (4 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Manalur (3 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Anthicad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Copra,Rice


== Market and Banking ==

There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.

There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 3 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


