{{Infobox settlement
| name=Aroor (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Cherthala 
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=15.04
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=39214
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2607
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1018
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=86.97%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628215
| footnotes=
}}

== Aroor (CT) (628215) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Aroor (CT) is a town in the [[Cherthala ]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 15.04 sq. km. and harbouring 9449 households with total population of 39214 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 45 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 202 km. Male population is 19431 and female population is 19783. Scheduled Caste population is 4378 and Scheduled Tribes population is 184. Census Location Code of the town is 628215<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 45 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 55 km. Railway station is at Aroor at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1935.6 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 34104 (86.97%)
* Literate male population: 17203 (88.53%)
* Literate female population: 16901 (85.43%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 68 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Cherthala (24 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 18 km .
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 24 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 24 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 24 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 22 km .
There are 5 Other medical amenitiess in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 8 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Cherthala (24 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (55 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (14 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (50 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Pallippuram (22 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Cherthala (24 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Cherthala (24 km) .
There is 1 private Vocational Training School in the town. 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Cherthala (24 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Cherthala (4 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Alappuzha  (45 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Arookutty  (5 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Cherthala (6 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Aroor (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Chemicals


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Towns in Cherthala  tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Alappuzha district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


