{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628214
|native_name=Arookutty (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Cherthala
|subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Alappuzha]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Cherthala]]
|Nearest city=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=12.86
|elevation_m=
|population_total=19411
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1509
|population_blank1=9650
|population_blank2=9761
|female_per_1000_male=1011
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Arookutty (CT) (628214) ==

Arookutty (CT) is a town in the [[Cherthala]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 12.86 sq. km. and harbouring 4414 households with total population of 19411 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 45 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 202 km. Male population is 9650 and female population is 9761. Scheduled Caste population is 1665 and Scheduled Tribes population is 48. Census Location Code of the town is 628214<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 45 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 46 km. Railway station is at Aroor at a distance of 3 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1935 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 16132
* Literate male population: 8295 (85.96%)
* Literate female population: 7837 (80.29%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 200 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Cherthala (24 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 15 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 4 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 2 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Cherthala (24 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (46 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (18 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (28 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Pallippuram (12 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Cherthala (24 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Cherthala (24 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Cherthala (24 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Cherthala (24 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Alappuzha  (45 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Cherthala (24 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Aroor (6 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Cherthala (4 km) .
The nearest government Cinema Theatre is at Cherthala (4 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Arookutty (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir products


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.


There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 3 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Cherthala]]
[[Categories:Alappuzha district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


