{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628544
|native_name=Athiyannur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Neyyattinkara
|subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thiruvananthapuram]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Neyyattinkara]]
|Nearest city=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=18.79
|elevation_m=
|population_total=40712
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2166
|population_blank1=19711
|population_blank2=21001
|female_per_1000_male=1065
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Athiyannur (CT) (628544) ==

Athiyannur (CT) is a town in the [[Neyyattinkara]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 18.79 sq. km. and harbouring 10675 households with total population of 40712 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 20 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 20 km. Male population is 19711 and female population is 21001. Scheduled Caste population is 5892 and Scheduled Tribes population is 72. Census Location Code of the town is 628544<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 20 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 20 km. Railway station is at Balaramapuram at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1828 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 11426
* Literate male population: 5688 (28.86%)
* Literate female population: 5738 (27.32%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 500 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Neyyattinkara (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 13 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 4 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 18 km .
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 18 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 2 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 18 km .
There are 2 Other medical amenitiess in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 17 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 8 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 7 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kanjiramkulam (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (20 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thiruvananthapuram (20 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thiruvananthapuram (20 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thiruvananthapuram (20 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thiruvananthapuram (20 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Thiruvananthapuram (20 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thiruvananthapuram (20 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Neyyattinkara (4 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Athiyannur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Auto,Handloom cloth


== Market and Banking ==
There are 6 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Neyyattinkara]]
[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


