{{Infobox settlement
| name=Athirampuzha (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kottayam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kottayam
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=20.33
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=40438
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1989
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1009
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=88.92%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628172
| footnotes=
}}

== Athirampuzha (CT) (628172) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Athirampuzha (CT) is a town in the [[Kottayam]] taluka of [[Kottayam]] district with an area of 20.33 sq. km. and harbouring 9805 households with total population of 40438 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kottayam]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 160 km. Male population is 20122 and female population is 20316. Scheduled Caste population is 1687 and Scheduled Tribes population is 177. Census Location Code of the town is 628172<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 48 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 66 km. Railway station is at Ettumanoor at a distance of 4 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2469 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 35958 (88.92%)
* Literate male population: 18001 (89.46%)
* Literate female population: 17957 (88.39%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kottayam (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 15 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 14 km .
There are 4 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 6 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 9 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts and Sciences in the town. 
 
There are 5 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottayam (12 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College - University in the town.The nearest private Degree College - University is at  (0 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Vaikom (5 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Ettumanoor (5 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kottayam (12 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Nattakam (16 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kottayam (12 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kottayam  (14 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kottayam (12 km) .
There is 1 government Working Women's Hostel in the town.There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Old Age Homes in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kottayam (12 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Ettumanur (2 km) .
There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Athirampuzha (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Cattle feeds,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kottayam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kottayam tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kottayam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


