{{Infobox settlement
| name=Attingal (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Chirayinkeezhu
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=16.87
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=37346
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2213
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1195
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803310
| footnotes=
}}

== Attingal (M) (803310) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Attingal (M) is a town in the [[Chirayinkeezhu]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 16.87 sq. km. and harbouring 9768 households with total population of 37346 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 32 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 32 km. Male population is 17009 and female population is 20337. Scheduled Caste population is 4057 and Scheduled Tribes population is 48. Census Location Code of the town is 803310<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 32 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 32 km. Railway station is at Chirayinkeezhu at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1820 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 650 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 14 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 27 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 25 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 24 km .
There are 20 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 16 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 39 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 6 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 15 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 7 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 7 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (32 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (32 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Nedumangad (38 km) .
There is 1 government Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Pirappacod (17 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government other educational facilitiess in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Chemmaruthy (5 km) .
There is 1 government Working Women's Hostel in the town.There are 2 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Attingal (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There are 8 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 4 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 3 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Chirayinkeezhu tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thiruvananthapuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


