{{Infobox settlement
| name=Ayanivelikulangara (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kollam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Karunagappally
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=9.44
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=24268
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2570
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1080
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=84.09%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628369
| footnotes=
}}

== Ayanivelikulangara (CT) (628369) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Ayanivelikulangara (CT) is a town in the [[Karunagappally]] taluka of [[Kollam]] district with an area of 9.44 sq. km. and harbouring 5982 households with total population of 24268 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kollam]] is at a distance of 22 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 98 km. Male population is 11664 and female population is 12604. Scheduled Caste population is 2337 and Scheduled Tribes population is 22. Census Location Code of the town is 628369<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 22 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 98 km. Railway station is at Karunagappally at a distance of 1 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2790 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 27


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 20408 (84.09%)
* Literate male population: 9938 (85.2%)
* Literate female population: 10470 (83.07%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 300 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Karunagappally (1 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 8 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 18 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 2 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 3 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Karunagappally (1 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (98 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (98 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kulasekharapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thodiyoor (4 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Chavara (6 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Karunagappally (1 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Karunagappally (1 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Chavara  (35 km) .
There is 1 private other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kollam (22 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Karunagappally (4 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kollam (18 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kollam (25 km) .
 
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Ayanivelikulangara (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir,Aluminium utensils,Furniture


== Market and Banking ==

There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Karunagappally tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kollam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


