{{Infobox settlement
| name=Azhikode South (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kannur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=7.44
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=25195
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=3386
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1216
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=87.51%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627231
| footnotes=
}}

== Azhikode South (CT) (627231) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Azhikode South (CT) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 7.44 sq. km. and harbouring 5512 households with total population of 25195 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 9 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 524 km. Male population is 11369 and female population is 13826. Scheduled Caste population is 917 and Scheduled Tribes population is 33. Census Location Code of the town is 627231<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 59 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 94 km. Railway station is at Valapattanam at a distance of 4 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2996 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 22047 (87.51%)
* Literate male population: 9941 (87.44%)
* Literate female population: 12106 (87.56%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 130 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kannur (9 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 9 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 9 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 4 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 9 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 9 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 9 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 9 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 12 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 7 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 7 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Puzhathi  (18 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (94 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (18 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (25 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (15 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kannur (15 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Edakkad (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Pappinisseri (6 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Edakkad (15 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Cherukunnu  (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kannur (4 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Pallikkunnu (6 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kannur (6 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Azhikode South (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom,Metal  products,Blockboard


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 5 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


