{{Infobox settlement
| name=Azhikode North (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kannur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=8.54
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=22128
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2591
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1178
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=86.29%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627230
| footnotes=
}}

== Azhikode North (CT) (627230) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Azhikode North (CT) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 8.54 sq. km. and harbouring 4503 households with total population of 22128 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 9 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 524 km. Male population is 10157 and female population is 11971. Scheduled Caste population is 1722 and Scheduled Tribes population is 43. Census Location Code of the town is 627230<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 59 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 96 km. Railway station is at Valapattanam at a distance of 1 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2995 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 19094 (86.29%)
* Literate male population: 8747 (86.12%)
* Literate female population: 10347 (86.43%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 80 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kannur (9 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 6 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 1 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 9 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 2 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Puzhathi  (15 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (96 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (18 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kadannappalli  (20 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (14 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kannur (14 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada  (10 km) .
 
There are 2 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kannur (9 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Cherukunnu  (11 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kannur (10 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Puzhathi (8 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Azhikode south (4 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kannur (8 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Azhikode North (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom,Plywood,Blockboard


== Market and Banking ==


There are 5 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 3 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


