{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628478
|native_name=Azhoor (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Chirayinkeezhu
|subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thiruvananthapuram]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Chirayinkeezhu]]
|Nearest city=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=12.46
|elevation_m=
|population_total=27390
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2198
|population_blank1=12386
|population_blank2=15004
|female_per_1000_male=1211
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Azhoor (CT) (628478) ==

Azhoor (CT) is a town in the [[Chirayinkeezhu]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 12.46 sq. km. and harbouring 6573 households with total population of 27390 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 30 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 30 km. Male population is 12386 and female population is 15004. Scheduled Caste population is 5245 and Scheduled Tribes population is 45. Census Location Code of the town is 628478<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 30 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 30 km. Railway station is at Perunguzhi at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1820 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 21611
* Literate male population: 10140 (81.87%)
* Literate female population: 11471 (76.45%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 500 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Attingal (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 11 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 17 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 6 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Attingal (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (30 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (30 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Nedumangad (25 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Attingal (10 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thiruvananthapuram (30 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Attingal (10 km) .
 
There are 2 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Attingal (18 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Attingal (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Edakkode  (8 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Attingal (11 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Chirayinkeezhu (5 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Azhoor (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Chirayinkeezhu]]
[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


