{{Infobox settlement
| name=Balusseri (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Quilandy
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=22.44
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=27363
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1219
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1108
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=86.7%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627397
| footnotes=
}}

== Balusseri (CT) (627397) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Balusseri (CT) is a town in the [[Quilandy]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 22.44 sq. km. and harbouring 6810 households with total population of 27363 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 40 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 455 km. Male population is 12977 and female population is 14386. Scheduled Caste population is 3722 and Scheduled Tribes population is 182. Census Location Code of the town is 627397<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 40 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 40 km. Railway station is at Quilandy at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2710 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 23725 (86.7%)
* Literate male population: 11470 (88.39%)
* Literate female population: 12255 (85.19%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 150 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Quilandy (15 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 20 km .
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 30 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 30 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 30 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 30 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 30 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 24 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.

There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 18 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 12 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 6 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There are 5 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (40 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (29 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (40 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kozhikode (40 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kozhikode (30 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kozhikode (40 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kozhikode (30 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kozhikode (30 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kozhikode (30 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (30 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Balusseri (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil,Aluminium metal,Greese 


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 9 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 4 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 4 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Towns in Quilandy tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


