{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627124
|native_name=Bangra Manjeshwar (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kasaragod
|subdivision_name2=Kasaragod
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kasaragod]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kasaragod]]
|Nearest city=[[Mangalore(m corp. + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=2.8
|elevation_m=
|population_total=5791
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2068
|population_blank1=2841
|population_blank2=2950
|female_per_1000_male=1038
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Bangra Manjeshwar (CT) (627124) ==

Bangra Manjeshwar (CT) is a town in the [[Kasaragod]] taluka of [[Kasaragod]] district with an area of 2.8 sq. km. and harbouring 1041 households with total population of 5791 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kasaragod]] is at a distance of 26 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 658 km. Male population is 2841 and female population is 2950. Scheduled Caste population is 452 and Scheduled Tribes population is 25. Census Location Code of the town is 627124<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Mangalore(m corp. + og) at a distance of 31 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 207 km. Railway station is at Manjeshwar at a distance of 2 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3401 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 4687
* Literate male population: 2387 (84.02%)
* Literate female population: 2300 (77.97%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 150 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kasaragod (26 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 25 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 30 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 30 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 28 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Uppala (2 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Manjeshwar (3 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (35 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (35 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Mangalore (31 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kasaragod (26 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kasaragod (26 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Periya (30 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kasaragod (26 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kasaragod (26 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kasaragod (26 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kasaragod (26 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kasaragod (26 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Chittarikkal (52 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Hosabettu (5 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Public Library is at Hosabettu (2 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Bangra Manjeshwar (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Copra,Beedi


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Kasaragod district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


