{{Infobox settlement
| name=Bharanikkavu (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Mavelikkara
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=10.34
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=15922
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1539
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1191
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=88.57%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628290
| footnotes=
}}

== Bharanikkavu (CT) (628290) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Bharanikkavu (CT) is a town in the [[Mavelikkara]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 10.34 sq. km. and harbouring 4276 households with total population of 15922 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 40 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 125 km. Male population is 7265 and female population is 8657. Scheduled Caste population is 2563 and Scheduled Tribes population is 22. Census Location Code of the town is 628290<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 40 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 109 km. Railway station is at Mavelikkara at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1936 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 14102 (88.57%)
* Literate male population: 6466 (89.0%)
* Literate female population: 7636 (88.21%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kayamkulam (7 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 18 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There are 3 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 7 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 21 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 1 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 18 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 9 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Mavelikkara (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (109 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (34 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (64 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Chengannur (8 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kayamkulam (12 km) .
 
There are 2 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Mavelikkara (10 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kayamkulam (15 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Mavelikkara  (10 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Mavelikkara (10 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Mavelikkara  (6 km) .
There is 1 private stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Mavelikkara (5 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Bharanikkavu (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Wooden  furniture,Hollow bricks,Burnt bricks


== Market and Banking ==


There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Towns in Mavelikkara tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Alappuzha district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


