{{Infobox settlement
| name=Brahmakulam (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Chavakkad
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=5.67
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=14390
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2537
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1132
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=86.75%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627804
| footnotes=
}}

== Brahmakulam (CT) (627804) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Brahmakulam (CT) is a town in the [[Chavakkad]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 5.67 sq. km. and harbouring 3472 households with total population of 14390 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 30 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 327 km. Male population is 6747 and female population is 7643. Scheduled Caste population is 562 and Scheduled Tribes population is 14. Census Location Code of the town is 627804<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 30 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 90 km. Railway station is at Guruvayoor at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 12483 (86.75%)
* Literate male population: 5835 (86.48%)
* Literate female population: 6648 (86.98%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 250 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Guruvayoor (7 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 4 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 3 km .
There are 4 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 7 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 7 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 9 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Guruvayoor (7 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (30 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (35 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (30 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Chittilappilly (8 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (30 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kunnamkulam (15 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrissur (30 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (30 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Guruvayoor (7 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Guruvayoor (7 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (30 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Brahmakulam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Beedi,Cement hollow bricks,Mineral water and water soda


== Market and Banking ==

There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Chavakkad tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


