{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803283
|native_name=Chalakudy (M)
|subdivision_name3=Mukundapuram
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Mukundapuram]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=25.23
|elevation_m=
|population_total=49525
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1962
|population_blank1=23744
|population_blank2=25781
|female_per_1000_male=1085
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Chalakudy (M) (803283) ==

Chalakudy (M) is a town in the [[Mukundapuram]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 25.23 sq. km. and harbouring 12567 households with total population of 49525 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 29 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 268 km. Male population is 23744 and female population is 25781. Scheduled Caste population is 3401 and Scheduled Tribes population is 77. Census Location Code of the town is 803283<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 29 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 49 km. Railway station is at Chalakudy at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3251.15 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.92
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22.53


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: #N/A
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 6750 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There are 2 Allopathic hospital facilitys in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 17 km .
There are 18 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
There are 3 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 18 km .
There are 25 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 54 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 9 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 8 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 7 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 6 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (29 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (25 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (29 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (29 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Kallettumkara (6 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Irinjalakuda (14 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 10 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chalakudy (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Tiles,Bricks,Ayruvedic medicine


== Market and Banking ==
There are 7 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 8 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 10 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 8 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Mukundapuram]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


