{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803297
|native_name=Changanassery (M)
|subdivision_name3=Changanassery
|subdivision_name2=Kottayam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kottayam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Changanassery]]
|Nearest city=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=13.5
|elevation_m=
|population_total=47685
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=3532
|population_blank1=22854
|population_blank2=24831
|female_per_1000_male=1086
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Changanassery (M) (803297) ==

Changanassery (M) is a town in the [[Changanassery]] taluka of [[Kottayam]] district with an area of 13.5 sq. km. and harbouring 11792 households with total population of 47685 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kottayam]] is at a distance of 18 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 136 km. Male population is 22854 and female population is 24831. Scheduled Caste population is 3718 and Scheduled Tribes population is 78. Census Location Code of the town is 803297<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 32 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 52 km. Railway station is at Changanassery at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2386 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: #N/A
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 3922 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 4 km .
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 21 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 8 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 25 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 7 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 7 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There are 4 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottayam (18 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (18 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Arpookara (22 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Panachikkad (18 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Puthuppally  (18 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kottayam  (18 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 3 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Old Age Homes in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.There are 7 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Changanassery (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Food products,Readymade dresses,General engineering


== Market and Banking ==
There are 11 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 8 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 23 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 11 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kottayam]]
[[Categories:Changanassery]]
[[Categories:Kottayam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


