{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628372
|native_name=Chavara (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Karunagappally
|subdivision_name2=Kollam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kollam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Karunagappally]]
|Nearest city=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=13.16
|elevation_m=
|population_total=42655
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=3241
|population_blank1=20396
|population_blank2=22259
|female_per_1000_male=1091
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Chavara (CT) (628372) ==

Chavara (CT) is a town in the [[Karunagappally]] taluka of [[Kollam]] district with an area of 13.16 sq. km. and harbouring 10596 households with total population of 42655 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kollam]] is at a distance of 13 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 95 km. Male population is 20396 and female population is 22259. Scheduled Caste population is 3672 and Scheduled Tribes population is 88. Census Location Code of the town is 628372<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 13 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 95 km. Railway station is at Karunagappally at a distance of 6 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3000 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 36704
* Literate male population: 17852 (87.53%)
* Literate female population: 18852 (84.69%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 400 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Karunagappally (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 13 km .
There are 7 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 2 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 1 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 22 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 9 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (95 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (95 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kulasekharapuram (20 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thodiyoor (6 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Karunagappally (6 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kollam (13 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Ayanivelikulangara (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kollam (13 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kollam (16 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kollam (21 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kollam (16 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Public Library is at Kollam (6 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chavara (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir,Copra,Sea food


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.

There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Karunagappally]]
[[Categories:Kollam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


