{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803279
|native_name=Chavakkad (M)
|subdivision_name3=Chavakkad
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Chavakkad]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=7.48
|elevation_m=
|population_total=39098
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=5227
|population_blank1=17762
|population_blank2=21336
|female_per_1000_male=1201
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Chavakkad (M) (803279) ==

Chavakkad (M) is a town in the [[Chavakkad]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 7.48 sq. km. and harbouring 8269 households with total population of 39098 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 31 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 331 km. Male population is 17762 and female population is 21336. Scheduled Caste population is 825 and Scheduled Tribes population is 58. Census Location Code of the town is 803279<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 31 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 97 km. Railway station is at Guruvayoor at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2800 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 37
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: #N/A
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 2000 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Guruvayoor (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 16 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 30 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 30 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 16 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 22 km .
There are 15 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 30 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 17 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 8 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kunnamkulam (5 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (31 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (38 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (31 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (31 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (31 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (31 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kunnamkulam (10 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (31 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Guruvayoor (5 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Guruvayoor (5 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Guruvayoor (5 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Iringaprom (6 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chavakkad (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Beedi,Copra


== Market and Banking ==
There are 5 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Chavakkad]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


