{{Infobox settlement
| name=Chekkiad (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Vadakara
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=24.48
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=24246
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=990
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1165
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=77.92%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627354
| footnotes=
}}

== Chekkiad (CT) (627354) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Chekkiad (CT) is a town in the [[Vadakara]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 24.48 sq. km. and harbouring 5051 households with total population of 24246 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 67 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 475 km. Male population is 11194 and female population is 13052. Scheduled Caste population is 303 and Scheduled Tribes population is 220. Census Location Code of the town is 627354<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 67 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 67 km. Railway station is at Vadakara at a distance of 22 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3218 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 18892 (77.92%)
* Literate male population: 9020 (80.58%)
* Literate female population: 9872 (75.64%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Vadakara (22 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 8 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 22 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 37 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 11 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thrippangottur (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (67 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (40 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (67 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Maniyur (30 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kozhikode (67 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Vadakara (22 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Nadapuram (8 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Thuneri (8 km) .
There is 1 government other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Vadakara (22 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Vadakara  (20 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Nadapuram (8 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kallachi (11 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chekkiad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Copra


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 10 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 10 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Towns in Vadakara tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


