{{Infobox settlement
| name=Chelambra (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Malappuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Tirurangadi
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=15.8
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=34149
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2161
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1071
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=82.92%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627541
| footnotes=
}}

== Chelambra (CT) (627541) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Chelambra (CT) is a town in the [[Tirurangadi]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 15.8 sq. km. and harbouring 7078 households with total population of 34149 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 37 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 454 km. Male population is 16482 and female population is 17667. Scheduled Caste population is 2905 and Scheduled Tribes population is 24. Census Location Code of the town is 627541<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 37 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 18 km. Railway station is at Feroke at a distance of 6 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1568 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 29


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 28315 (82.92%)
* Literate male population: 13836 (83.95%)
* Literate female population: 14479 (81.96%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 250 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kozhikode (18 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 18 km .
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 26 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 18 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 20 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 24 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 24 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 30 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Tirur (25 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (28 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (5 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (18 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thenhippalam (5 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Moonniyur (8 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kozhikode (20 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Tirur (26 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kuttippuram (6 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Tirurangadi (18 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thenhippalam (13 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kuttippuram (20 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Valanchery (12 km) .
 
There are 3 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chelambra (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance):  foot wears,Furniture,Match box


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Tirurangadi tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Malappuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


