{{Infobox settlement
| name=Chelakkara (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Talappilly
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=3.79
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=7528
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1986
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1129
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=83.59%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627768
| footnotes=
}}

== Chelakkara (CT) (627768) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Chelakkara (CT) is a town in the [[Talappilly]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 3.79 sq. km. and harbouring 1691 households with total population of 7528 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 34 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 315 km. Male population is 3535 and female population is 3993. Scheduled Caste population is 412 and Scheduled Tribes population is 1. Census Location Code of the town is 627768<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (Population 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 34 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 114 km. Railway station is at Wadakkanchery at a distance of 20 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 6293 (83.59%)
* Literate male population: 2980 (84.3%)
* Literate female population: 3313 (82.97%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 375 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kumaranellur (15 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 2 km .
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 3 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 19 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 9 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts and Commerce in the town.There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Commerce in the town. 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thrissur (34 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (34 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (35 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (34 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Cheruthuruthy (12 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (34 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thonnoor (1 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Wadakkanchery (10 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrissur (34 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (34 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 2 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (34 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Peringandur (19 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (34 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chelakkara (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Pvc pipe,Pickles


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Talappilly tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


