{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627241
|native_name=Chelora (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kannur
|subdivision_name2=Kannur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kannur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kannur]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=11.35
|elevation_m=
|population_total=20952
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1845
|population_blank1=9497
|population_blank2=11455
|female_per_1000_male=1206
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Chelora (CT) (627241) ==

Chelora (CT) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 11.35 sq. km. and harbouring 4527 households with total population of 20952 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 8 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 523 km. Male population is 9497 and female population is 11455. Scheduled Caste population is 526 and Scheduled Tribes population is 118. Census Location Code of the town is 627241<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 69 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 90 km. Railway station is at Kannur at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2995 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 18079
* Literate male population: 8183 (86.16%)
* Literate female population: 9896 (86.39%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kannur (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 10 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 18 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.

There are 2 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 8 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thottada (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (90 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (40 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (15 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (25 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kannur (25 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada (4 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kannur (8 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kannur (8 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Pallikkunnu (5 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kannur (8 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kannur (8 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kannur (10 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kannur (18 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kannur (10 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chelora (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil,Paddy,Cashew nut


== Market and Banking ==


There are 6 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Kannur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


