{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627957
|native_name=Chelamattom (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kunnathunad
|subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Ernakulam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kunnathunad]]
|Nearest city=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=7.29
|elevation_m=
|population_total=16844
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2310
|population_blank1=8346
|population_blank2=8498
|female_per_1000_male=1018
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Chelamattom (CT) (627957) ==

Chelamattom (CT) is a town in the [[Kunnathunad]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 7.29 sq. km. and harbouring 4151 households with total population of 16844 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 10 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 230 km. Male population is 8346 and female population is 8498. Scheduled Caste population is 939 and Scheduled Tribes population is 25. Census Location Code of the town is 627957<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 20 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 20 km. Railway station is at Aluva at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3656 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 38
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 14440
* Literate male population: 7248 (86.84%)
* Literate female population: 7192 (84.63%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Perumbavoor (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 8 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
There is 1 Other medical amenities in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalady (2 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Perumbavoor (8 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Perumbavoor (8 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Perumbavoor (8 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Koovappady (8 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Perumbavoor (8 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Perumbavoor (8 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Perumbavoor (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Perumbavoor (8 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Perumbavoor (8 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Perumbavoor (8 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Perumbavoor (8 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Perumbavoor (8 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chelamattom (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice,"plastic pipe,tank",Clay tiles


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Kunnathunad]]
[[Categories:Ernakulam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


