{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627216
|native_name=Cheleri (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Taliparamba
|subdivision_name2=Kannur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kannur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Taliparamba]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=8.56
|elevation_m=
|population_total=10848
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1267
|population_blank1=4873
|population_blank2=5975
|female_per_1000_male=1226
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Cheleri (CT) (627216) ==

Cheleri (CT) is a town in the [[Taliparamba]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 8.56 sq. km. and harbouring 2150 households with total population of 10848 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 16 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 530 km. Male population is 4873 and female population is 5975. Scheduled Caste population is 566 and Scheduled Tribes population is 6. Census Location Code of the town is 627216<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 95 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 120 km. Railway station is at Kannur at a distance of 16 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2990 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 8892
* Literate male population: 4101 (84.16%)
* Literate female population: 4791 (80.18%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 125 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kannur (16 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 8 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 10 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 15 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 5 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 15 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at Maniyoor (2 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Maniyoor (2 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kannur (16 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (13 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (13 km) .
 
There is 1 private Medical College in the town.The nearest private Medical College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Taliparamba  (18 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Taliparamba (16 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada  (20 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kannur (16 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Andoor (8 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Cherukunnu  (14 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kannur (16 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kannur (16 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Pallikkunnu (19 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kannur (16 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Kannur (16 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Cheleri (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==

There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Taliparamba]]
[[Categories:Kannur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


