{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627422
|native_name=Chelannur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kozhikode
|subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kozhikode]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kozhikode]]
|Nearest city=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=23.91
|elevation_m=
|population_total=40697
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1702
|population_blank1=19574
|population_blank2=21123
|female_per_1000_male=1079
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Chelannur (CT) (627422) ==

Chelannur (CT) is a town in the [[Kozhikode]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 23.91 sq. km. and harbouring 9716 households with total population of 40697 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 11 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 435 km. Male population is 19574 and female population is 21123. Scheduled Caste population is 4493 and Scheduled Tribes population is 223. Census Location Code of the town is 627422<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 11 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 11 km. Railway station is at Kozhikode at a distance of 11 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2703 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 38
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 35736
* Literate male population: 17422 (89.01%)
* Literate female population: 18314 (86.7%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kozhikode (11 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 18 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 13 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 11 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Puthiyangadi (10 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (11 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (11 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Puthiyangadi (10 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Puthiyangadi (10 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Puthiyangadi (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kakkodi (6 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kozhikode (11 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kozhikode (11 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Chevayoor (15 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (11 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kozhikode (3 km) .
The nearest government Cinema Theatre is at Kozhikode (11 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chelannur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Foot wears,Homeo medicines,Copra


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Kozhikode district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


