{{Infobox settlement
| name=Chemancheri (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Quilandy
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=16.76
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=34819
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2077
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1161
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=84.99%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627399
| footnotes=
}}

== Chemancheri (CT) (627399) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Chemancheri (CT) is a town in the [[Quilandy]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 16.76 sq. km. and harbouring 8090 households with total population of 34819 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 17 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 432 km. Male population is 16112 and female population is 18707. Scheduled Caste population is 1810 and Scheduled Tribes population is 36. Census Location Code of the town is 627399<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 17 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 17 km. Railway station is at Chemancheri at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2710 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 29594 (84.99%)
* Literate male population: 13998 (86.88%)
* Literate female population: 15596 (83.37%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 225 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kozhikode (17 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 17 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 25 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 16 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 18 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Quilandy (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (17 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (26 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Atholi (18 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kozhikode (40 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kozhikode (40 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kozhikode (17 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Quilandy (8 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kozhikode (17 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kozhikode (17 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kozhikode (17 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (22 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Quilandy (8 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Quilandy (8 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chemancheri (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir,Processed prawn


== Market and Banking ==


There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Towns in Quilandy tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


