{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627135
|native_name=Chemnad (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kasaragod
|subdivision_name2=Kasaragod
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kasaragod]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kasaragod]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=8.3
|elevation_m=
|population_total=14323
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1725
|population_blank1=6662
|population_blank2=7661
|female_per_1000_male=1149
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Chemnad (CT) (627135) ==

Chemnad (CT) is a town in the [[Kasaragod]] taluka of [[Kasaragod]] district with an area of 8.3 sq. km. and harbouring 2747 households with total population of 14323 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kasaragod]] is at a distance of 8 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 525 km. Male population is 6662 and female population is 7661. Scheduled Caste population is 388 and Scheduled Tribes population is 233. Census Location Code of the town is 627135<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 32 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 162 km. Railway station is at Kalanad at a distance of 2 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3401 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 11610
* Literate male population: 5401 (81.07%)
* Literate female population: 6209 (81.05%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 300 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kasaragod (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 4 km .
There are 8 Alternative Medicine hospitals in the town.
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 1 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 25 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Chengala  (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (22 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (22 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Pariyaram (80 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kasaragod (8 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kudlu (4 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kasaragod (8 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kudlu (5 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Puthur  (4 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 government Orphanage Home in the town.There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kasaragod (8 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kasaragod (8 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kasaragod (8 km) .
 
The nearest government Public Library is at Kasaragod (7 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chemnad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Beedi


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Kasaragod district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


