{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803301
|native_name=Chengannur (M)
|subdivision_name3=Chengannur
|subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Alappuzha]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Chengannur]]
|Nearest city=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=14.6
|elevation_m=
|population_total=23466
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1607
|population_blank1=10933
|population_blank2=12533
|female_per_1000_male=1146
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Chengannur (M) (803301) ==

Chengannur (M) is a town in the [[Chengannur]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 14.6 sq. km. and harbouring 6278 households with total population of 23466 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 48 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 118 km. Male population is 10933 and female population is 12533. Scheduled Caste population is 2588 and Scheduled Tribes population is 75. Census Location Code of the town is 803301<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 48 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 101 km. Railway station is at Chengannur at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2098 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 26


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: #N/A
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1350 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 16 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 48 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 18 km .
There are 17 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 24 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (101 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (35 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (43 km) .
There is 1 government Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Pandalam (15 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thiruvalla (20 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kayamkulam (11 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chengannur (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Aluminium,Cement bricks,Vehicle battery


== Market and Banking ==
There are 13 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 14 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 5 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 8 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Chengannur]]
[[Categories:Alappuzha district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


