{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627874
|native_name=Chendrappini (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kodungallur
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kodungallur]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=7.35
|elevation_m=
|population_total=16404
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2231
|population_blank1=7422
|population_blank2=8982
|female_per_1000_male=1210
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Chendrappini (CT) (627874) ==

Chendrappini (CT) is a town in the [[Kodungallur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 7.35 sq. km. and harbouring 4078 households with total population of 16404 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 38 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 262 km. Male population is 7422 and female population is 8982. Scheduled Caste population is 2108 and Scheduled Tribes population is 25. Census Location Code of the town is 627874<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 38 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 51 km. Railway station is at Irinjalakuda at a distance of 18 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 30


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 13996
* Literate male population: 6282 (84.64%)
* Literate female population: 7714 (85.88%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Irinjalakuda (15 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 8 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 18 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 18 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 18 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 38 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 18 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts and Commerce in the town. 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Valappad (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (38 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (22 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (38 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (38 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (38 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Nattika (8 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Valappad (8 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kunnamkulam (35 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Irinjalakuda (16 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kaipamangalam (5 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Methala (20 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Methala (20 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Irinjalakuda (23 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Edathiruthy  (4 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chendrappini (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Kodungallur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


