{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627984
|native_name=Chendamangalam (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Paravur
|subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Ernakulam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Paravur]]
|Nearest city=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=10.83
|elevation_m=
|population_total=29326
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2707
|population_blank1=14153
|population_blank2=15173
|female_per_1000_male=1072
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Chendamangalam (CT) (627984) ==

Chendamangalam (CT) is a town in the [[Paravur]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 10.83 sq. km. and harbouring 7635 households with total population of 29326 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 25 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 270 km. Male population is 14153 and female population is 15173. Scheduled Caste population is 1990 and Scheduled Tribes population is 69. Census Location Code of the town is 627984<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 37 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 37 km. Railway station is at Aluva at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3058 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34.5
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 26183
* Literate male population: 12647 (89.36%)
* Literate female population: 13536 (89.21%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 160 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Paravur (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
There are 5 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 5 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There are 4 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 13 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Moothakunnam  (18 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (37 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (25 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Puthenvelikkara  (15 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Moothakunnam (12 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Paravur (10 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalamassery (20 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Paravur (5 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kochi (19 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kochi (19 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Aluva (15 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Paravur (5 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chendamangalam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom,Papaer products,Plastic products


== Market and Banking ==

There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Paravur]]
[[Categories:Ernakulam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


