{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628176
|native_name=Chengalam South (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kottayam
|subdivision_name2=Kottayam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kottayam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kottayam]]
|Nearest city=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=11.44
|elevation_m=
|population_total=16111
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1408
|population_blank1=7921
|population_blank2=8190
|female_per_1000_male=1033
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Chengalam South (CT) (628176) ==

Chengalam South (CT) is a town in the [[Kottayam]] taluka of [[Kottayam]] district with an area of 11.44 sq. km. and harbouring 3865 households with total population of 16111 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kottayam]] is at a distance of 8 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 162 km. Male population is 7921 and female population is 8190. Scheduled Caste population is 708 and Scheduled Tribes population is 32. Census Location Code of the town is 628176<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 48 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 55 km. Railway station is at Kottayam at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2469 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 14241
* Literate male population: 6994 (88.3%)
* Literate female population: 7247 (88.49%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 96 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kottayam (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 19 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 13 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 15 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kumarakam (4 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottayam (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (8 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Arpookara (12 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Ettumanoor (18 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kottayam (8 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Nattakom (9 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kottayam (8 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Aimanam (5 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kottayam  (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kottayam (8 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kottayam (8 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kottayam (8 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kottayam (8 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kottayam (8 km) .
There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Public Library is at Kottayam (8 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chengalam South (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==


There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Kottayam]]
[[Categories:Kottayam]]
[[Categories:Kottayam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


