{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627976
|native_name=Chengamanad (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Aluva
|subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Ernakulam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Aluva]]
|Nearest city=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=15.88
|elevation_m=
|population_total=29576
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1862
|population_blank1=14475
|population_blank2=15101
|female_per_1000_male=1043
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Chengamanad (CT) (627976) ==

Chengamanad (CT) is a town in the [[Aluva]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 15.88 sq. km. and harbouring 7275 households with total population of 29576 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 25 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 225 km. Male population is 14475 and female population is 15101. Scheduled Caste population is 2377 and Scheduled Tribes population is 29. Census Location Code of the town is 627976<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 20 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 20 km. Railway station is at Aluva at a distance of 6 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3656 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 30
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 25132
* Literate male population: 12551 (86.71%)
* Literate female population: 12581 (83.31%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 75 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Aluva (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 6 km .
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 4 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 10 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Aluva (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalady (7 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (10 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Paravur (10 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Paravur (10 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalamassery (12 km) .
 
There are 5 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Aluva (6 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kalady (11 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Aluva (6 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Aluva (6 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Aluva (6 km) .
There are 2 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chengamanad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Bricks,Tiles,Hollow bricks


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Aluva]]
[[Categories:Ernakulam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


