{{Infobox settlement
| name=Chennithala (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Mavelikkara
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=6.38
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=12360
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1937
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1161
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=89.07%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628288
| footnotes=
}}

== Chennithala (CT) (628288) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Chennithala (CT) is a town in the [[Mavelikkara]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 6.38 sq. km. and harbouring 3345 households with total population of 12360 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 48 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 126 km. Male population is 5719 and female population is 6641. Scheduled Caste population is 982 and Scheduled Tribes population is 11. Census Location Code of the town is 628288<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 48 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 92 km. Railway station is at Mavelikkara at a distance of 4 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1936 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 11009 (89.07%)
* Literate male population: 5079 (88.81%)
* Literate female population: 5930 (89.29%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Mavelikkara (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 1 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 13 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There are 2 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 3 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 2 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 48 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 22 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.

There are 2 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Mavelikkara (3 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Mavelikkara (4 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (92 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (35 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (26 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Chengannur (20 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Chengannur (20 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kayamkulam (16 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Mavelikkara (4 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Mavelikkara (4 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kayamkulam (11 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Mavelikkara  (4 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Mavelikkara (4 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Thazhakkara (7 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Mavelikkara (4 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Mavelikkara (5 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chennithala (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Matches,Bricks


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Towns in Mavelikkara tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Alappuzha district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


