{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628260
|native_name=Cheppad (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Karthikappally
|subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Alappuzha]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Karthikappally]]
|Nearest city=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=12.68
|elevation_m=
|population_total=20052
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1581
|population_blank1=9165
|population_blank2=10887
|female_per_1000_male=1187
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Cheppad (CT) (628260) ==

Cheppad (CT) is a town in the [[Karthikappally]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 12.68 sq. km. and harbouring 5344 households with total population of 20052 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 36 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 112 km. Male population is 9165 and female population is 10887. Scheduled Caste population is 2915 and Scheduled Tribes population is 73. Census Location Code of the town is 628260<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 36 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 100 km. Railway station is at Cheppad at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1894 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 17769
* Literate male population: 8205 (89.53%)
* Literate female population: 9564 (87.85%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 450 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kayamkulam (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 4 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 16 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 23 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Haripad (5 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kayamkulam  (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (100 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (28 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (35 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Chengannur (20 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kayamkulam (18 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kayamkulam (18 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Haripad (5 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kayamkulam (8 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Haripad (6 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Haripad (6 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kayamkulam (8 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Haripad (5 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Haripad (5 km) .
There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Cheppad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Cashew nut


== Market and Banking ==

There are 4 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Karthikappally]]
[[Categories:Alappuzha district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


