{{Infobox settlement
| name=Cheruvannur (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kozhikode
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=10.31
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=61614
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=5976
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1069
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=84.06%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627436
| footnotes=
}}

== Cheruvannur (CT) (627436) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Cheruvannur (CT) is a town in the [[Kozhikode]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 10.31 sq. km. and harbouring 12319 households with total population of 61614 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 9 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 425 km. Male population is 29777 and female population is 31837. Scheduled Caste population is 2170 and Scheduled Tribes population is 57. Census Location Code of the town is 627436<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (Population 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 9 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 9 km. Railway station is at Feroke at a distance of 3 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2704 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 51793 (84.06%)
* Literate male population: 25239 (84.76%)
* Literate female population: 26554 (83.41%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 200 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kozhikode (9 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 17 km .
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 14 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 15 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Pantheeramkavu  (1 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (9 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (16 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (9 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Chathamangalam (40 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Ramanattukara (15 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kozhikode (9 km) .
 
There are 4 private Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kozhikode (9 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Ramanattukara (15 km) .
There are 2 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 5 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Cheruvannur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Roofing tiles,Foot wears,Matches


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


