{{Infobox settlement
| name=Cherukavu (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Malappuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Ernad
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=14.51
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=30126
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2076
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1038
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=81.8%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627467
| footnotes=
}}

== Cherukavu (CT) (627467) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Cherukavu (CT) is a town in the [[Ernad]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 14.51 sq. km. and harbouring 6063 households with total population of 30126 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 37 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 415 km. Male population is 14778 and female population is 15348. Scheduled Caste population is 2455 and Scheduled Tribes population is 43. Census Location Code of the town is 627467<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 37 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 24 km. Railway station is at Feroke at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2200 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 24644 (81.8%)
* Literate male population: 12271 (83.04%)
* Literate female population: 12373 (80.62%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 600 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Malappuram (37 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 22 km .
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 22 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 22 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 22 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 32 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 4 km .
There are 5 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 8 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at Pulikkal (1 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Ramanattukara (7 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Pallikkal (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (26 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (18 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College - Others in the town.The nearest private Degree College - Others is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (24 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thenhippalam (8 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thenhippalam (8 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Thenhippalam (12 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Malappuram (15 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Malappuram (37 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (20 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Ramanattukara (4 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Cherukavu (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernad tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Malappuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


