{{Infobox settlement
| name=Cherukunnu (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kannur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=15.33
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=16111
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1050
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1252
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=84.08%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627225
| footnotes=
}}

== Cherukunnu (CT) (627225) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Cherukunnu (CT) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 15.33 sq. km. and harbouring 3418 households with total population of 16111 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 16 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 531 km. Male population is 7153 and female population is 8958. Scheduled Caste population is 1158 and Scheduled Tribes population is 40. Census Location Code of the town is 627225<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 43 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 110 km. Railway station is at Kannapuram at a distance of 1 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2990 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 13546 (84.08%)
* Literate male population: 6056 (84.66%)
* Literate female population: 7490 (83.61%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 400 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kannur (16 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 3 km .
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 3 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 2 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 16 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Madayi (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (110 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (25 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kadannappalli  (17 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (13 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kannur (13 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalliassery (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kannur (16 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Cheruthazham (20 km) .
There is 1 private other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Cherukunnu (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Plywood,Coir,Coconut  oil


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


