{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627757
|native_name=Cheruthuruthi (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Talappilly
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Talappilly]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=7.54
|elevation_m=
|population_total=13828
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1833
|population_blank1=6588
|population_blank2=7240
|female_per_1000_male=1098
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Cheruthuruthi (CT) (627757) ==

Cheruthuruthi (CT) is a town in the [[Talappilly]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 7.54 sq. km. and harbouring 2988 households with total population of 13828 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 35 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 335 km. Male population is 6588 and female population is 7240. Scheduled Caste population is 1376 and Scheduled Tribes population is 6. Census Location Code of the town is 627757<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 35 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 115 km. Railway station is at Vallathol nagar at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2900 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 38
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 11330
* Literate male population: 5542 (84.12%)
* Literate female population: 5788 (79.94%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is  kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Shoranur (3 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 2 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 15 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 15 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 22 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 6 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Shoranur (3 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (35 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (40 km) .
 
There is 1 private Medical College in the town.The nearest private Medical College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Panjal (3 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thrissur (4 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Shoranur (5 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Wadakkanchery (10 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Palakkad (8 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (35 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Shoranur (2 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Painkulam (3 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (32 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Shoranur (10 km) .
There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Cheruthuruthi (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Talappilly]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


