{{Infobox settlement
| name=Cheriyamundam (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Malappuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Tirur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=11.26
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=31212
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2771
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1181
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=79.4%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627531
| footnotes=
}}

== Cheriyamundam (CT) (627531) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Cheriyamundam (CT) is a town in the [[Tirur]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 11.26 sq. km. and harbouring 5613 households with total population of 31212 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 24 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 400 km. Male population is 14308 and female population is 16904. Scheduled Caste population is 475 and Scheduled Tribes population is 57. Census Location Code of the town is 627531<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 24 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 74 km. Railway station is at Tirur at a distance of 6 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2769 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 24783 (79.4%)
* Literate male population: 11423 (79.84%)
* Literate female population: 13360 (79.03%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 900 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Tirur (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 6 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 24 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.

There are 2 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Commerce in the town. 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Tirur (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (22 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (35 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College - Others in the town.The nearest private Degree College - Others is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (74 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kuttippuram (20 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Malappuram (24 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Tirur (6 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Kattipparuthy (6 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thalakkad (9 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Malappuram (24 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Valavannur (4 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Tirur (7 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Tavanur (21 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Tirur (6 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Tirur (5 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Tirur (6 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Cheriyamundam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Tirur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Malappuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


