{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627864
|native_name=Chevvoor (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Thrissur
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Thrissur]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=6.09
|elevation_m=
|population_total=16086
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2641
|population_blank1=7691
|population_blank2=8395
|female_per_1000_male=1091
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Chevvoor (CT) (627864) ==

Chevvoor (CT) is a town in the [[Thrissur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 6.09 sq. km. and harbouring 3870 households with total population of 16086 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 6 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 297 km. Male population is 7691 and female population is 8395. Scheduled Caste population is 2035 and Scheduled Tribes population is 116. Census Location Code of the town is 627864<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 6 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 86 km. Railway station is at Thrissur at a distance of 6 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 27


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 14306
* Literate male population: 6908 (89.82%)
* Literate female population: 7398 (88.12%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 600 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrissur (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 8 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 10 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 3 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 7 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 1 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 18 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 7 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (16 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (6 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Ollukara (16 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (6 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Thrissur (10 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chevvoor (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Wooden furniture,Gold ornaments,Tiles


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


