{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628259
|native_name=Chingoli (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Karthikappally
|subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Alappuzha]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Karthikappally]]
|Nearest city=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=7.24
|elevation_m=
|population_total=14981
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2069
|population_blank1=6901
|population_blank2=8080
|female_per_1000_male=1170
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Chingoli (CT) (628259) ==

Chingoli (CT) is a town in the [[Karthikappally]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 7.24 sq. km. and harbouring 4052 households with total population of 14981 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 38 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 120 km. Male population is 6901 and female population is 8080. Scheduled Caste population is 1428 and Scheduled Tribes population is 38. Census Location Code of the town is 628259<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 38 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 102 km. Railway station is at Haripad at a distance of 7 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1600 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 27


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 12825
* Literate male population: 5962 (86.39%)
* Literate female population: 6863 (84.94%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kayamkulam (13 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 15 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 19 km .
There are 5 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Muthukulam (4 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kayamkulam  (13 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (102 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (24 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (28 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Chengannur (24 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Alappuzha (38 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kayamkulam (12 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Ambalappuzha (38 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Mavelikkara (18 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Haripad (4 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Haripad (4 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kayamkulam (5 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Cheppad (3 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Haripad (28 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Haripad (7 km) .
There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chingoli (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): "ayurvedic medicine, hair oil",Coir,Bakery items


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.


There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Karthikappally]]
[[Categories:Alappuzha district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


