{{Infobox settlement
| name=Chirakkal (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kannur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=13.48
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=45601
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=3382
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1158
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=85.73%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627233
| footnotes=
}}

== Chirakkal (CT) (627233) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Chirakkal (CT) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 13.48 sq. km. and harbouring 9599 households with total population of 45601 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 5 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 505 km. Male population is 21123 and female population is 24478. Scheduled Caste population is 2702 and Scheduled Tribes population is 128. Census Location Code of the town is 627233<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 61 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 94 km. Railway station is at Chirakkal at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2996 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 39093 (85.73%)
* Literate male population: 18256 (86.43%)
* Literate female population: 20837 (85.13%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 500 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kannur (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 9 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 5 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 11 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 5 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Valapattanam (2 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Puzhathi  (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (94 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (10 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (20 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (5 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kannur (5 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Edakkad (14 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kannur (7 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kannur (5 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Pallikkunnu (15 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Valapattanam (2 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Puzhathi (4 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Pallikkunnu (4 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Kannur (5 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chirakkal (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Textile,Beedi,Blockboard


== Market and Banking ==
There are 6 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 7 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 4 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


