{{Infobox settlement
| name=Chiranellur (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Talappilly
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=6.52
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=9789
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1501
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1124
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=82.56%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627777
| footnotes=
}}

== Chiranellur (CT) (627777) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Chiranellur (CT) is a town in the [[Talappilly]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 6.52 sq. km. and harbouring 2240 households with total population of 9789 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 20 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 325 km. Male population is 4608 and female population is 5181. Scheduled Caste population is 798 and Scheduled Tribes population is 18. Census Location Code of the town is 627777<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (Population 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 20 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 100 km. Railway station is at Guruvayoor at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 8082 (82.56%)
* Literate male population: 3837 (83.27%)
* Literate female population: 4245 (81.93%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 150 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kunnamkulam (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 2 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 2 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 2 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 16 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 3 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 16 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Velur (4 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts and Commerce in the town. 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kunnamkulam (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (23 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Veloor (4 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kunnamkulam (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kunnamkulam (10 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kunnamkulam (10 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (20 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kunnamkulam (10 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Mundathicode (12 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kunnamkulam (10 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Eranelloor (2 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Eranelloor (2 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chiranellur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Household items,Building materials,Steel almirahs


== Market and Banking ==


There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Talappilly tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


