{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627773
|native_name=Chiramanangad (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Talappilly
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Talappilly]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=7.82
|elevation_m=
|population_total=11060
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1414
|population_blank1=5293
|population_blank2=5767
|female_per_1000_male=1089
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Chiramanangad (CT) (627773) ==

Chiramanangad (CT) is a town in the [[Talappilly]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 7.82 sq. km. and harbouring 2541 households with total population of 11060 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 27 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 325 km. Male population is 5293 and female population is 5767. Scheduled Caste population is 964 and Scheduled Tribes population is 20. Census Location Code of the town is 627773<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 27 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 107 km. Railway station is at Wadakkanchery at a distance of 18 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 9348
* Literate male population: 4506 (85.13%)
* Literate female population: 4842 (83.96%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is  kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kunnamkulam (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 1 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 2 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 1 km .
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Erumapetty (4 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kunnamkulam (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (27 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (27 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (27 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (27 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kunnamkulam (8 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kunnamkulam (8 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kunnamkulam (8 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (27 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 2 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kunnamkulam (8 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Karikkad (5 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kunnamkulam (8 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kunnamkulam (8 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Vellarkkad (1 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chiramanangad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Building materials,Rice,Rubber products


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Talappilly]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


