{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627841
|native_name=Chittilappilly (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Thrissur
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Thrissur]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=4.93
|elevation_m=
|population_total=6988
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1417
|population_blank1=3340
|population_blank2=3648
|female_per_1000_male=1092
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Chittilappilly (CT) (627841) ==

Chittilappilly (CT) is a town in the [[Thrissur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 4.93 sq. km. and harbouring 1714 households with total population of 6988 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 8 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 305 km. Male population is 3340 and female population is 3648. Scheduled Caste population is 614 and Scheduled Tribes population is 10. Census Location Code of the town is 627841<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 8 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 89 km. Railway station is at Thrissur at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2764 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 6083
* Literate male population: 2932 (87.78%)
* Literate female population: 3151 (86.38%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 140 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrissur (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 12 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 3 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 18 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Middle School is at Puranattukara (2 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Puranattukara (2 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Puranattukara (2 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thrissur (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (22 km) .
 
There is 1 private Medical College in the town.The nearest private Medical College is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (8 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (8 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Thrissur (8 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrissur (8 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Peramangalam (2 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (4 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Thrissur (12 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chittilappilly (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Induction cooker,Industrial machinery,Rice


== Market and Banking ==


There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


