{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627766
|native_name=Chittanda (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Talappilly
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Talappilly]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=5.87
|elevation_m=
|population_total=5936
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1011
|population_blank1=2821
|population_blank2=3115
|female_per_1000_male=1104
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Chittanda (CT) (627766) ==

Chittanda (CT) is a town in the [[Talappilly]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 5.87 sq. km. and harbouring 1378 households with total population of 5936 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 23 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 323 km. Male population is 2821 and female population is 3115. Scheduled Caste population is 896 and Scheduled Tribes population is 1. Census Location Code of the town is 627766<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 23 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 103 km. Railway station is at Wadakkanchery at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 4837
* Literate male population: 2360 (83.66%)
* Literate female population: 2477 (79.52%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is  kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kumaranellur (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 5 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Wadakkanchery (5 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Thrissur (23 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thrissur (23 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (23 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (30 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (23 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Viyyur (14 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (23 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kunnamkulam (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Velur (7 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrissur (23 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (23 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thrissur (5 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (5 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Thrissur (14 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Thrissur (18 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kumaranellur (4 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Kottappuram (2 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chittanda (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Furniture


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.






[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Talappilly]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


