{{Infobox settlement
| name=Chittur-Thathamangalam (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Palakkad
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Chittur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=14.71
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=32298
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2195
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Palakkad (m)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1061
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803276
| footnotes=
}}

== Chittur-Thathamangalam (M) (803276) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Chittur-Thathamangalam (M) is a town in the [[Chittur]] taluka of [[Palakkad]] district with an area of 14.71 sq. km. and harbouring 7974 households with total population of 32298 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Palakkad]] is at a distance of 14 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 273 km. Male population is 15665 and female population is 16633. Scheduled Caste population is 3837 and Scheduled Tribes population is 30. Census Location Code of the town is 803276<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Palakkad (m) at a distance of 14 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Coimbatore(m corp. )  at a distance of 50 km. Railway station is at Palakkad at a distance of 14 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2380 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32.8
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24.6


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1000 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 17 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 17 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 17 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 15 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 11 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts only in the town.There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There are 2 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (45 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (50 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (45 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Hemambikanagar  (16 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Marutharode (16 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Vaniyamkulam- ii  (16 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Palakkad  (5 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Palakkad (5 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Palakkad (5 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Palakkad (16 km) .
There are 5 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 9 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chittur-Thathamangalam (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil,Rice


== Market and Banking ==
There are 5 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 7 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 5 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Palakkad]]
[[Categories:Towns in Chittur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Palakkad district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


