{{Infobox settlement
| name=Chockli (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Thalassery
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=14.24
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=33732
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2368
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1240
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=86.54%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627291
| footnotes=
}}

== Chockli (CT) (627291) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Chockli (CT) is a town in the [[Thalassery]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 14.24 sq. km. and harbouring 7052 households with total population of 33732 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 32 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 482 km. Male population is 15055 and female population is 18677. Scheduled Caste population is 678 and Scheduled Tribes population is 112. Census Location Code of the town is 627291<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 95 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 66 km. Railway station is at Mahe at a distance of 2 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2570 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 29190 (86.54%)
* Literate male population: 12945 (85.98%)
* Literate female population: 16245 (86.98%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Mahe (3 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 10 km .
There are 4 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 3 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 2 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 4 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.

There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 28 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 7 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Panoor (5 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Palayad (24 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (31 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (30 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Eranholi (15 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thottada  (35 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Edakkad (30 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Dharmadom (15 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Koothuparamba (12 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thalassery (10 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thalassery (10 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Thalassery (8 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Chokli (4 km) .
There are 5 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chockli (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Copra


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 4 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thalassery tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


