{{Infobox settlement
| name=Choornikkara (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Aluva
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=16.8
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=43207
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2571
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1042
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=69.79%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627980
| footnotes=
}}

== Choornikkara (CT) (627980) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Choornikkara (CT) is a town in the [[Aluva]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 16.8 sq. km. and harbouring 10403 households with total population of 43207 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 8 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 235 km. Male population is 21151 and female population is 22056. Scheduled Caste population is 3278 and Scheduled Tribes population is 164. Census Location Code of the town is 627980<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 8 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 8 km. Railway station is at Aluva at a distance of 4 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3656 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 30154 (69.79%)
* Literate male population: 14858 (70.25%)
* Literate female population: 15296 (69.35%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 310 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Aluva (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 4 km .
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.

There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 9 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Aluva (4 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalady (14 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (15 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalamassery (7 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Special School for Disableds in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kalady (18 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Aluva (4 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 6 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Choornikkara (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Forest products,Cashew nut,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Aluva tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernakulam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


