{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627833
|native_name=Choolissery (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Thrissur
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Thrissur]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=3.28
|elevation_m=
|population_total=5441
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1658
|population_blank1=2736
|population_blank2=2705
|female_per_1000_male=988
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Choolissery (CT) (627833) ==

Choolissery (CT) is a town in the [[Thrissur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 3.28 sq. km. and harbouring 1310 households with total population of 5441 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 10 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 310 km. Male population is 2736 and female population is 2705. Scheduled Caste population is 487 and Scheduled Tribes population is 15. Census Location Code of the town is 627833<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 10 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 90 km. Railway station is at Mulamkunnathukavu at a distance of 20 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2764 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 4760
* Literate male population: 2407 (87.98%)
* Literate female population: 2353 (86.99%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 300 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrissur (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 10 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 10 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 4 km .
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 4 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Middle School is at Peramangalam (2 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Peramangalam (2 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Peramangalam (2 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (83 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Chittilappilly (6 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Peramangalam (3 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Thrissur (2 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Peramangalam (3 km) .
There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Choolissery (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Tile,Pipe,Wooden  furniture


== Market and Banking ==


There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


