{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627361
|native_name=Chorode (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Vadakara
|subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kozhikode]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Vadakara]]
|Nearest city=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=13.41
|elevation_m=
|population_total=38245
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2851
|population_blank1=17918
|population_blank2=20327
|female_per_1000_male=1134
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Chorode (CT) (627361) ==

Chorode (CT) is a town in the [[Vadakara]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 13.41 sq. km. and harbouring 8089 households with total population of 38245 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 48 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 463 km. Male population is 17918 and female population is 20327. Scheduled Caste population is 692 and Scheduled Tribes population is 80. Census Location Code of the town is 627361<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 48 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 48 km. Railway station is at Vadakara at a distance of 3 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3218 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 32467
* Literate male population: 15381 (85.84%)
* Literate female population: 17086 (84.06%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 54 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Vadakara (3 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 6 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 64 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 6 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 15 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Onchiam (3 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (48 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (48 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (48 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Maniyur (12 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Vadakara (6 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Vadakara (3 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Vadakara (3 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Vadakara (3 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Vadakara (14 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Villiappally  (32 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Vadakara (3 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Vadakara  (5 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Vadakara (5 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Onchiyam (3 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Vadakara (6 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chorode (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Textiles,P v c pipe,Pottery items


== Market and Banking ==


There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Vadakara]]
[[Categories:Kozhikode district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


