{{Infobox settlement
| name=Chowwara (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Aluva
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=8.27
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=14933
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1805
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1027
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=84.6%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627974
| footnotes=
}}

== Chowwara (CT) (627974) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Chowwara (CT) is a town in the [[Aluva]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 8.27 sq. km. and harbouring 3579 households with total population of 14933 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 25 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 225 km. Male population is 7366 and female population is 7567. Scheduled Caste population is 1859 and Scheduled Tribes population is 31. Census Location Code of the town is 627974<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 20 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 20 km. Railway station is at Chowwara at a distance of 2 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2350 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 27


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 12634 (84.6%)
* Literate male population: 6377 (86.57%)
* Literate female population: 6257 (82.69%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 5000 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Nedumbassery (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 1 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 15 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 15 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Mattoor (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalady (6 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (35 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Koovapady (12 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kochi (20 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Koovappady (12 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Aluva (11 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Manjapra (12 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kalady (6 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Aluva (12 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Aluva (12 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Aluva (6 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Chowwara (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Bread,Furniture


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Aluva tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernakulam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


