{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627759
|native_name=Desamangalam (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Talappilly
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Talappilly]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=8.48
|elevation_m=
|population_total=8355
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=985
|population_blank1=4026
|population_blank2=4329
|female_per_1000_male=1075
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Desamangalam (CT) (627759) ==

Desamangalam (CT) is a town in the [[Talappilly]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 8.48 sq. km. and harbouring 1722 households with total population of 8355 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 36 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 335 km. Male population is 4026 and female population is 4329. Scheduled Caste population is 948 and Scheduled Tribes population is 9. Census Location Code of the town is 627759<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 36 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 116 km. Railway station is at Wadakkanchery at a distance of 18 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 6391
* Literate male population: 3140 (77.99%)
* Literate female population: 3251 (75.1%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 379 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Shoranur (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 13 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 18 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 9 km .
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 26 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kunnamkulam  (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (36 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (35 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (36 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Palakkad (35 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (36 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Shoranur (36 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Painkulam (8 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (36 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kunnamkulam (6 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Desamangalam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Country bricks


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Talappilly]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


