{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627282
|native_name=Dharmadom (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Thalassery
|subdivision_name2=Kannur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kannur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Thalassery]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=10.66
|elevation_m=
|population_total=30804
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2889
|population_blank1=13987
|population_blank2=16817
|female_per_1000_male=1202
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Dharmadom (CT) (627282) ==

Dharmadom (CT) is a town in the [[Thalassery]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 10.66 sq. km. and harbouring 6751 households with total population of 30804 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 15 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 495 km. Male population is 13987 and female population is 16817. Scheduled Caste population is 615 and Scheduled Tribes population is 56. Census Location Code of the town is 627282<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 70 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 70 km. Railway station is at Dharmadom at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3335 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 27192
* Literate male population: 12352 (88.31%)
* Literate female population: 14840 (88.24%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 700 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thalassery (3 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 3 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 3 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 3 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 3 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 3 km .
There is 1 Other medical amenities in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 6 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 12 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 5 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College - Law in the town.The nearest private Degree College - Law is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (26 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (25 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Eranholi (3 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thottada  (15 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada (14 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Thalassery (3 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Koothuparamba (17 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thalassery (3 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thalassery (3 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 15 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Dharmadom (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Plastic goods,Beedi,Coir


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Thalassery]]
[[Categories:Kannur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


