{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627358
|native_name=Edacheri (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Vadakara
|subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kozhikode]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Vadakara]]
|Nearest city=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=16.18
|elevation_m=
|population_total=26819
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1657
|population_blank1=12368
|population_blank2=14451
|female_per_1000_male=1168
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Edacheri (CT) (627358) ==

Edacheri (CT) is a town in the [[Vadakara]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 16.18 sq. km. and harbouring 5985 households with total population of 26819 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 60 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 480 km. Male population is 12368 and female population is 14451. Scheduled Caste population is 541 and Scheduled Tribes population is 55. Census Location Code of the town is 627358<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 60 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 60 km. Railway station is at Vadakara at a distance of 14 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3218 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 22133
* Literate male population: 10500 (84.9%)
* Literate female population: 11633 (80.5%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Vadakara (14 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 13 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 13 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 10 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 15 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 10 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Nadapuram (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (60 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (45 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (60 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Maniyur (20 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kunnamangalam (10 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Vadakara (14 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Vadakara (14 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Vadakara (11 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Villiappally  (10 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Vadakara (14 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Vadakara  (15 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Vadakara (14 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Vadakara (14 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Vadakara (14 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Edacheri (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom,Power loom


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 5 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Vadakara]]
[[Categories:Kozhikode district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


