{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628477
|native_name=Edakkode (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Chirayinkeezhu
|subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thiruvananthapuram]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Chirayinkeezhu]]
|Nearest city=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=8.55
|elevation_m=
|population_total=12994
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1519
|population_blank1=5956
|population_blank2=7038
|female_per_1000_male=1181
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Edakkode (CT) (628477) ==

Edakkode (CT) is a town in the [[Chirayinkeezhu]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 8.55 sq. km. and harbouring 3266 households with total population of 12994 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 35 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 35 km. Male population is 5956 and female population is 7038. Scheduled Caste population is 3137 and Scheduled Tribes population is 19. Census Location Code of the town is 628477<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 35 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 35 km. Railway station is at Chirayinkeezhu at a distance of 14 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1820 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 11034
* Literate male population: 5088 (85.43%)
* Literate female population: 5946 (84.48%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 150 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Attingal (3 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 4 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 2 km .
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 14 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 14 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.

There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Avanavancherry (3 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Avanavancherry (3 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Attingal (3 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (35 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (35 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Nedumangad (28 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Attingal (6 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thiruvananthapuram (35 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Attingal (6 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Attingal  (3 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Attingal (5 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Attingal (6 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Attingal (6 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Attingal (4 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Attingal (5 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Edakkode (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rubber,Paddy,Coconut products


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Chirayinkeezhu]]
[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


