{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627563
|native_name=Edappal (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Ponnani
|subdivision_name2=Malappuram
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Malappuram]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Ponnani]]
|Nearest city=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=22.22
|elevation_m=
|population_total=32550
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1464
|population_blank1=15113
|population_blank2=17437
|female_per_1000_male=1153
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Edappal (CT) (627563) ==

Edappal (CT) is a town in the [[Ponnani]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 22.22 sq. km. and harbouring 6684 households with total population of 32550 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 65 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 350 km. Male population is 15113 and female population is 17437. Scheduled Caste population is 3821 and Scheduled Tribes population is 61. Census Location Code of the town is 627563<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 65 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 40 km. Railway station is at Kuttippuram at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2200 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 30
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 27095
* Literate male population: 12666 (83.81%)
* Literate female population: 14429 (82.75%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Ponnani (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There are 6 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 13 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 17 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 9 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Ponnani (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (32 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (14 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (32 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kuttippuram (10 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kuttippuram (50 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Tirur (50 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Ponnani (12 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Ponnani (12 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Ponnani (12 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Thrissur (50 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Ponnani (12 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 3 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Edappal (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Ponnani]]
[[Categories:Malappuram district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


