{{Infobox settlement
| name=Edathiruthy (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kodungallur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=9.29
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=12921
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1390
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1234
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=86.05%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627873
| footnotes=
}}

== Edathiruthy (CT) (627873) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Edathiruthy (CT) is a town in the [[Kodungallur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 9.29 sq. km. and harbouring 3153 households with total population of 12921 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 38 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 262 km. Male population is 5782 and female population is 7139. Scheduled Caste population is 2748 and Scheduled Tribes population is 56. Census Location Code of the town is 627873<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 38 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 51 km. Railway station is at Irinjalakuda at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 30


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 11118 (86.05%)
* Literate male population: 4971 (85.97%)
* Literate female population: 6147 (86.1%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Irinjalakuda (15 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 7 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 1 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 4 km .
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 1 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 1 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 35 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 2 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 35 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 7 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Kodungallur (18 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Valappad (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (38 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (18 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (38 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (38 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (38 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Nattika (8 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Nattika (18 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kunnamkulam (18 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Irinjalakuda (12 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kaipamangalam (5 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Methala (20 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Methala (20 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Irinjalakuda (24 km) .
 
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Edathiruthy (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): V stabiliser


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kodungallur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


