{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627930
|native_name=Edathirinji (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Mukundapuram
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Mukundapuram]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=10.19
|elevation_m=
|population_total=9849
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=966
|population_blank1=4568
|population_blank2=5281
|female_per_1000_male=1156
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Edathirinji (CT) (627930) ==

Edathirinji (CT) is a town in the [[Mukundapuram]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 10.19 sq. km. and harbouring 2517 households with total population of 9849 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 27 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 273 km. Male population is 4568 and female population is 5281. Scheduled Caste population is 937 and Scheduled Tribes population is 30. Census Location Code of the town is 627930<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 27 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 50 km. Railway station is at Irinjalakuda at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 8632
* Literate male population: 4008 (87.74%)
* Literate female population: 4624 (87.56%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 307 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 13 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 27 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 11 km .
There are 5 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.

There are 2 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 11 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (27 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (25 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (27 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (27 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kallettumkara (18 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Irinjalakuda (7 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Edathirinji (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir,Concrete tile,Hollow bricks


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Mukundapuram]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


