{{Infobox settlement
| name=Elayavoor (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kannur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=11.53
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=33853
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2936
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1186
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=87.72%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627240
| footnotes=
}}

== Elayavoor (CT) (627240) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Elayavoor (CT) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 11.53 sq. km. and harbouring 7453 households with total population of 33853 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 3 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 525 km. Male population is 15484 and female population is 18369. Scheduled Caste population is 1268 and Scheduled Tribes population is 62. Census Location Code of the town is 627240<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 67 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 97 km. Railway station is at Kannur at a distance of 3 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2996 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 29697 (87.72%)
* Literate male population: 13577 (87.68%)
* Literate female population: 16120 (87.76%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 500 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kannur (3 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 6 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 11 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 12 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 6 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (97 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (30 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (18 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (8 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kannur (8 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There are 2 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Pallikkunnu (4 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kannur (8 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kannur (8 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kannur (8 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kannur (8 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 11 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Elayavoor (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.

There are 3 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


