{{Infobox settlement
| name=Eloor (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Paravur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=10.71
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=31468
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2938
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1022
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=87.97%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627992
| footnotes=
}}

== Eloor (CT) (627992) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Eloor (CT) is a town in the [[Paravur]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 10.71 sq. km. and harbouring 7901 households with total population of 31468 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 240 km. Male population is 15557 and female population is 15911. Scheduled Caste population is 3433 and Scheduled Tribes population is 290. Census Location Code of the town is 627992<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 12 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 12 km. Railway station is at Aluva at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3053 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 27682 (87.97%)
* Literate male population: 13838 (88.95%)
* Literate female population: 13844 (87.01%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 13 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 16 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 15 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 15 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 8 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 7 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 6 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kochi (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (7 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (8 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Thirkkakkara (10 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kalamassery (8 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Thirkkakkara (8 km) .
 
There are 2 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.There are 2 private Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kochi (18 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 2 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kalamassery (8 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kakkanad (14 km) .
There is 1 private stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Eloor (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Factum fose,Ammonium sulphate,Caprolactum


== Market and Banking ==
There are 5 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 4 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Paravur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernakulam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


