{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627769
|native_name=Enkakkad (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Talappilly
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Talappilly]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=7.12
|elevation_m=
|population_total=9584
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1346
|population_blank1=4530
|population_blank2=5054
|female_per_1000_male=1115
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Enkakkad (CT) (627769) ==

Enkakkad (CT) is a town in the [[Talappilly]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 7.12 sq. km. and harbouring 2293 households with total population of 9584 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 18 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 305 km. Male population is 4530 and female population is 5054. Scheduled Caste population is 1569 and Scheduled Tribes population is 6. Census Location Code of the town is 627769<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 18 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 98 km. Railway station is at Wadakkanchery at a distance of 16 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 8064
* Literate male population: 3881 (85.67%)
* Literate female population: 4183 (82.77%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 500 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 15 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 0.5 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 18 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Wadakkanchery (6 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Wadakkanchery (6 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thrissur (18 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (18 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (27 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (18 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (18 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (18 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (16 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Wadakkanchery (6 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrissur (18 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (18 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Chelakkara  (10 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (16 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Thrissur (16 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (16 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kumaranellur (6 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Enkakkad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice,Arecanut,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.





[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Talappilly]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


