{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628048
|native_name=Eramalloor (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kothamangalam
|subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Ernakulam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kothamangalam]]
|Nearest city=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=19.85
|elevation_m=
|population_total=33829
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1704
|population_blank1=16999
|population_blank2=16830
|female_per_1000_male=990
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Eramalloor (CT) (628048) ==

Eramalloor (CT) is a town in the [[Kothamangalam]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 19.85 sq. km. and harbouring 7971 households with total population of 33829 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 46 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 229 km. Male population is 16999 and female population is 16830. Scheduled Caste population is 1805 and Scheduled Tribes population is 91. Census Location Code of the town is 628048<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 50 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 50 km. Railway station is at Aluva at a distance of 35 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2740 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 30
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 27429
* Literate male population: 14129 (83.12%)
* Literate female population: 13300 (79.03%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 350 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kothamangalam (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 1 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 5 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 33 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (50 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (22 km) .
 
There is 1 private Medical College in the town.The nearest private Medical College is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kothamangalam (4 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalamassery (22 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kothamangalam (4 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kochi (6 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kothamangalam (4 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kothamangalam (3 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kothamanglam (4 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Kothamangalam (8 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kothamanglam (4 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Eramalloor (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Wooden furniture,Tyre,Cement products


== Market and Banking ==


There are 4 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 4 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Kothamangalam]]
[[Categories:Ernakulam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


