{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627359
|native_name=Eramala (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Vadakara
|subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kozhikode]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Vadakara]]
|Nearest city=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=19.06
|elevation_m=
|population_total=34658
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1818
|population_blank1=15858
|population_blank2=18800
|female_per_1000_male=1185
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Eramala (CT) (627359) ==

Eramala (CT) is a town in the [[Vadakara]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 19.06 sq. km. and harbouring 7722 households with total population of 34658 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 60 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 473 km. Male population is 15858 and female population is 18800. Scheduled Caste population is 801 and Scheduled Tribes population is 50. Census Location Code of the town is 627359<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 60 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 60 km. Railway station is at Vadakara at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3218 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 29263
* Literate male population: 13606 (85.8%)
* Literate female population: 15657 (83.28%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 500 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Vadakara (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 18 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 7 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 60 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
There is 1 Other medical amenities in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 10 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 13 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Onchiam (7 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (60 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (50 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (60 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Maniyur (14 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kunnamangalam (70 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Vadakara (8 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Vadakara (7 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Vadakara (8 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Vadakara (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Vadakara (7 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Vadakara  (8 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thalassery (22 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Vadakara (7 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Vadakara (7 km) .
There are 11 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Eramala (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Textiles,Pottery items,Coir


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Vadakara]]
[[Categories:Kozhikode district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


