{{Infobox settlement
| name=Eranholi (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Thalassery
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=10.08
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=25818
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2561
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1198
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=89.82%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627283
| footnotes=
}}

== Eranholi (CT) (627283) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Eranholi (CT) is a town in the [[Thalassery]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 10.08 sq. km. and harbouring 6042 households with total population of 25818 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 25 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 482 km. Male population is 11741 and female population is 14077. Scheduled Caste population is 363 and Scheduled Tribes population is 57. Census Location Code of the town is 627283<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 74 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 74 km. Railway station is at Thalassery at a distance of 7 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3335 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 23191 (89.82%)
* Literate male population: 10498 (89.41%)
* Literate female population: 12693 (90.17%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 500 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thalassery (7 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 7 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 7 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 29 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 7 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 7 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 30 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 4 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 6 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 9 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 5 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Science only in the town. 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thalassery (7 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Dharmadom (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (40 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (20 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thottada  (5 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada (24 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Thalassery (7 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Dharmadom (10 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Koothuparamba (12 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thalassery (7 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thalassery (7 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Thalassery (7 km) .
There are 4 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Thalassery (7 km) .
There are 8 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Eranholi (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Beedi,Steel vessels,Handloom


== Market and Banking ==


There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 7 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thalassery tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


