{{Infobox settlement
| name=Eranellur (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Talappilly
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=5.42
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=10145
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1871
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1142
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=85.28%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627782
| footnotes=
}}

== Eranellur (CT) (627782) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Eranellur (CT) is a town in the [[Talappilly]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 5.42 sq. km. and harbouring 2424 households with total population of 10145 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 18 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 293 km. Male population is 4735 and female population is 5410. Scheduled Caste population is 957 and Scheduled Tribes population is 6. Census Location Code of the town is 627782<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 18 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 98 km. Railway station is at Guruvayoor at a distance of 11 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 8652 (85.28%)
* Literate male population: 4053 (85.6%)
* Literate female population: 4599 (85.01%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 200 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kunnamkulam (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 8 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 8 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 3 km .
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 18 km .
There are 5 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 12 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Mundathikode (8 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kandanassery (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (18 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (18 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (18 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (18 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kunnamkulam (8 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kunnamkulam (11 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (18 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thrissur (18 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (18 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Guruvayoor (18 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (18 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Eranellur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Toy balls,Country bricks


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Talappilly tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


