{{Infobox settlement
| name=Erattupetta (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kottayam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Meenachil
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=18.29
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=34814
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1903
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=983
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=83.19%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628138
| footnotes=
}}

== Erattupetta (CT) (628138) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Erattupetta (CT) is a town in the [[Meenachil]] taluka of [[Kottayam]] district with an area of 18.29 sq. km. and harbouring 7686 households with total population of 34814 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kottayam]] is at a distance of 40 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 179 km. Male population is 17555 and female population is 17259. Scheduled Caste population is 423 and Scheduled Tribes population is 202. Census Location Code of the town is 628138<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 38 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 62 km. Railway station is at Ettumanoor at a distance of 24 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3025 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 37
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 28963 (83.19%)
* Literate male population: 14862 (84.66%)
* Literate female population: 14101 (81.7%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 16 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 40 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 5 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 10 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 7 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Science in the town. 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Palai  (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottayam (40 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (22 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Arpookara (40 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Poonjar (6 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Palai (12 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Palai (12 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kottayam (40 km) .
There are 2 private Special School for Disableds in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Palai  (5 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 2 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Palai (12 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.There is 1 private stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.There are 4 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Erattupetta (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rubber products,Foam bed


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 5 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kottayam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Meenachil tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kottayam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


