{{Infobox settlement
| name=Eravu (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Thrissur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=5.24
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=4447
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=848
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1128
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=88.49%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627849
| footnotes=
}}

== Eravu (CT) (627849) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Eravu (CT) is a town in the [[Thrissur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 5.24 sq. km. and harbouring 1089 households with total population of 4447 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 10 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 297 km. Male population is 2089 and female population is 2358. Scheduled Caste population is 532 and Scheduled Tribes population is 0. Census Location Code of the town is 627849<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class VI (Population < 5,000).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 10 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 90 km. Railway station is at Thrissur at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 27


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 3935 (88.49%)
* Literate male population: 1871 (89.56%)
* Literate female population: 2064 (87.53%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrissur (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 10 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 10 km .
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Middle School is at Manalur (10 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Manalur (10 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Manakkody (10 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (16 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (10 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Manalur (10 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Manalur (6 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Nadathara (5 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Manakkody (10 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (4 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Thrissur (8 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kanjani (5 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Manalur (10 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Manalur (10 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Eravu (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice,Wooden furniture,Concrete frames


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.





[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


