{{Infobox settlement
| name=Eravattur (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Quilandy
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=15.13
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=17016
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1124
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1069
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=85.5%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627387
| footnotes=
}}

== Eravattur (CT) (627387) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Eravattur (CT) is a town in the [[Quilandy]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 15.13 sq. km. and harbouring 4126 households with total population of 17016 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 50 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 465 km. Male population is 8223 and female population is 8793. Scheduled Caste population is 2396 and Scheduled Tribes population is 51. Census Location Code of the town is 627387<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 50 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 50 km. Railway station is at Quilandy at a distance of 25 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2770 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 14549 (85.5%)
* Literate male population: 7231 (87.94%)
* Literate female population: 7318 (83.23%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 2 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 2 km .
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 50 km .
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 50 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 22 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 13 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 7 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (50 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (35 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (50 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Chathamangalam (31 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Chathamangalam (31 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Valakom (35 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Menhaniam (2 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Vadakara (22 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Palayad (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Vadakara (22 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kozhikode (50 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (50 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Koothali (5 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Quilandy  (12 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Quilandy (12 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Eravattur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut products,Sponch products,Handloom


== Market and Banking ==


There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Towns in Quilandy tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


