{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628171
|native_name=Ettumanoor (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kottayam
|subdivision_name2=Kottayam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kottayam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kottayam]]
|Nearest city=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=16
|elevation_m=
|population_total=26993
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1687
|population_blank1=13273
|population_blank2=13720
|female_per_1000_male=1033
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Ettumanoor (CT) (628171) ==

Ettumanoor (CT) is a town in the [[Kottayam]] taluka of [[Kottayam]] district with an area of 16 sq. km. and harbouring 6638 households with total population of 26993 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kottayam]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 164 km. Male population is 13273 and female population is 13720. Scheduled Caste population is 1475 and Scheduled Tribes population is 126. Census Location Code of the town is 628171<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 49 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 68 km. Railway station is at Ettumanoor at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2469 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 40
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 30


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 23967
* Literate male population: 11819 (89.05%)
* Literate female population: 12148 (88.54%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1000 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 18 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 8 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 4 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 10 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 7 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 5 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Athirampuzha (2 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottayam (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (6 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Vaikom (6 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kottayam (12 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Nattakam (20 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Special School for Disableds in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kottayam  (15 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 2 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kottayam (12 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kottayam (12 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kottayam (12 km) .
There are 3 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 6 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Ettumanoor (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rubber products,Coconut oil,Plastic items


== Market and Banking ==
There are 6 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Kottayam]]
[[Categories:Kottayam]]
[[Categories:Kottayam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


