{{Infobox settlement
| name=Ezhome (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kannur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=18.9
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=19261
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1019
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1209
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=84.66%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627223
| footnotes=
}}

== Ezhome (CT) (627223) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Ezhome (CT) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 18.9 sq. km. and harbouring 4297 households with total population of 19261 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 26 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 538 km. Male population is 8716 and female population is 10545. Scheduled Caste population is 1729 and Scheduled Tribes population is 33. Census Location Code of the town is 627223<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 42 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 102 km. Railway station is at Pazhayangadi at a distance of 14 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2990 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 16307 (84.66%)
* Literate male population: 7463 (85.62%)
* Literate female population: 8844 (83.87%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 56 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kannur (26 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 13 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
There is 1 Mobile health clinic in the town.
There is 1 Other medical amenities in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 6 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (102 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (20 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kadannappalli  (6 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (20 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kannur (20 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada  (20 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Cherukunnu  (6 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kannur (25 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kannur (25 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kadannappalli (25 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kannur (25 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Cherukunnu (1 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Ezhome (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Plywood,Rice flake,Prawns


== Market and Banking ==
There are 4 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


