{{Infobox settlement
| name=Guruvayoor (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Chavakkad
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=12.41
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=20510
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1652
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1133
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803278
| footnotes=
}}

== Guruvayoor (M) (803278) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Guruvayoor (M) is a town in the [[Chavakkad]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 12.41 sq. km. and harbouring 5273 households with total population of 20510 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 28 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 330 km. Male population is 9614 and female population is 10896. Scheduled Caste population is 438 and Scheduled Tribes population is 52. Census Location Code of the town is 803278<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 28 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 87 km. Railway station is at Guruvayoor at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2800 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 37
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 2000 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 15 km .
There are 16 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 4 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 4 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 28 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 12 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 17 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 10 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Science in the town. 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Commerce in the town. 
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (28 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (40 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (28 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (28 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (28 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kunnamkulam (5 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (28 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 government Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Iringaprom (6 km) .
There are 4 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 21 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Guruvayoor (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rubber products,Beedi


== Market and Banking ==
There are 16 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 6 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 4 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Chavakkad tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


