{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628256
|native_name=Haripad (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Karthikappally
|subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Alappuzha]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Karthikappally]]
|Nearest city=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=9.56
|elevation_m=
|population_total=15588
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1630
|population_blank1=7262
|population_blank2=8326
|female_per_1000_male=1146
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Haripad (CT) (628256) ==

Haripad (CT) is a town in the [[Karthikappally]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 9.56 sq. km. and harbouring 4137 households with total population of 15588 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 32 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 125 km. Male population is 7262 and female population is 8326. Scheduled Caste population is 1137 and Scheduled Tribes population is 42. Census Location Code of the town is 628256<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 32 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 90 km. Railway station is at Haripad at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1936 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 37
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 13829
* Literate male population: 6451 (88.83%)
* Literate female population: 7378 (88.61%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 65 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kayamkulam (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 17 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 1 km .
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 1 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 22 km .
There are 5 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kayamkulam  (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (90 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (24 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (30 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Alappuzha  (20 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Alappuzha (32 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kayamkulam (14 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kayamkulam (1 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Cheppad (5 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 5 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Haripad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice


== Market and Banking ==
There are 7 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 4 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Karthikappally]]
[[Categories:Alappuzha district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


