{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627649
|native_name=Hemambikanagar (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Palakkad
|subdivision_name2=Palakkad
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Palakkad]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Palakkad]]
|Nearest city=[[Palakkad (m)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=19.04
|elevation_m=
|population_total=28592
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1501
|population_blank1=13862
|population_blank2=14730
|female_per_1000_male=1062
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Hemambikanagar (CT) (627649) ==

Hemambikanagar (CT) is a town in the [[Palakkad]] taluka of [[Palakkad]] district with an area of 19.04 sq. km. and harbouring 7127 households with total population of 28592 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Palakkad]] is at a distance of 5 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 380 km. Male population is 13862 and female population is 14730. Scheduled Caste population is 2912 and Scheduled Tribes population is 270. Census Location Code of the town is 627649<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Palakkad (m) at a distance of 5 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Coimbatore(m corp. )  at a distance of 70 km. Railway station is at Palakkad at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2500 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 38
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 24136
* Literate male population: 12029 (86.78%)
* Literate female population: 12107 (82.19%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 300 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Palakkad (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 8 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 15 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Palakkad (5 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (70 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (52 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (70 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Vaniyamkulam- ii  (12 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Palakkad (5 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Palakkad  (5 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Palakkad  (5 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Palakkad (5 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Puduppariyaram (5 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Palakkad (5 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Palakkad (5 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Hemambikanagar (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Steel,Cement,Pet bottle


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Palakkad]]
[[Categories:Palakkad]]
[[Categories:Palakkad district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


