{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627123
|native_name=Hosabettu (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kasaragod
|subdivision_name2=Kasaragod
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kasaragod]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kasaragod]]
|Nearest city=[[Mangalore(m corp. + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=2.55
|elevation_m=
|population_total=5179
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2030
|population_blank1=2591
|population_blank2=2588
|female_per_1000_male=998
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Hosabettu (CT) (627123) ==

Hosabettu (CT) is a town in the [[Kasaragod]] taluka of [[Kasaragod]] district with an area of 2.55 sq. km. and harbouring 927 households with total population of 5179 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kasaragod]] is at a distance of 35 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 660 km. Male population is 2591 and female population is 2588. Scheduled Caste population is 170 and Scheduled Tribes population is 1. Census Location Code of the town is 627123<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Mangalore(m corp. + og) at a distance of 30 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 206 km. Railway station is at Manjeshwar at a distance of 2 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3401 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 4035
* Literate male population: 2074 (80.05%)
* Literate female population: 1961 (75.77%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 150 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kasaragod (35 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 25 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 30 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 5 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 2 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (37 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (37 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Mangalore (30 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kasaragod (35 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kasaragod (35 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Periya (25 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kasaragod (35 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kasaragod (35 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kasaragod (35 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kasaragod (35 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Chittarikkal (55 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kasaragod  (35 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Hosabettu (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Copra,Chemicals,Beedi


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Kasaragod district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


