{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627212
|native_name=Irikkur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Taliparamba
|subdivision_name2=Kannur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kannur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Taliparamba]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=11.28
|elevation_m=
|population_total=13820
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1225
|population_blank1=6690
|population_blank2=7130
|female_per_1000_male=1065
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Irikkur (CT) (627212) ==

Irikkur (CT) is a town in the [[Taliparamba]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 11.28 sq. km. and harbouring 2327 households with total population of 13820 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 35 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 550 km. Male population is 6690 and female population is 7130. Scheduled Caste population is 151 and Scheduled Tribes population is 20. Census Location Code of the town is 627212<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 75 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 136 km. Railway station is at Kannur at a distance of 35 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2990 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 10861
* Literate male population: 5466 (81.7%)
* Literate female population: 5395 (75.67%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 75 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Mattannur (20 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 13 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 8 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 30 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kuttiattoor  (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (22 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (22 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Pariyaram (40 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Taliparamba  (35 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Taliparamba  (35 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada  (26 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Taliparamba (35 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Taliparamba (35 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Cherukunnu  (14 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 4 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Taliparamba (35 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Pattuvam (30 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Taliparamba (35 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Sreekandapuram (6 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Sreekandapuram (4 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Irikkur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 4 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Taliparamba]]
[[Categories:Kannur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


