{{Infobox settlement
| name=Irimbiliyam (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Malappuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Tirur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=24.06
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=30635
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1273
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1104
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=81.76%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627538
| footnotes=
}}

== Irimbiliyam (CT) (627538) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Irimbiliyam (CT) is a town in the [[Tirur]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 24.06 sq. km. and harbouring 5904 households with total population of 30635 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 32 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 362 km. Male population is 14557 and female population is 16078. Scheduled Caste population is 3493 and Scheduled Tribes population is 214. Census Location Code of the town is 627538<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 32 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 68 km. Railway station is at Kuttippuram at a distance of 11 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2769 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 38
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 25047 (81.76%)
* Literate male population: 12020 (82.57%)
* Literate female population: 13027 (81.02%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 200 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Tirur (23 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 3 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 11 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 11 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 11 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 28 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 11 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Commerce in the town. 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Tirur (23 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (68 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (55 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (68 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kuttippuram (14 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Chelambra  (68 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Tirur (23 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Tirur (23 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Tirur (23 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kuttippuram (4 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Athavanad (9 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Tirur (26 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Tavanur (11 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Tavanur (15 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Valanchery (3 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Valanchery (3 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Valanchery (3 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Irimbiliyam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Ayurvedic medicines,Garments


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Tirur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Malappuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


