{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627799
|native_name=Iringaprom (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Chavakkad
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Chavakkad]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=4.1
|elevation_m=
|population_total=12343
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=3010
|population_blank1=5768
|population_blank2=6575
|female_per_1000_male=1139
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Iringaprom (CT) (627799) ==

Iringaprom (CT) is a town in the [[Chavakkad]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 4.1 sq. km. and harbouring 3033 households with total population of 12343 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 30 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 320 km. Male population is 5768 and female population is 6575. Scheduled Caste population is 641 and Scheduled Tribes population is 13. Census Location Code of the town is 627799<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 30 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 90 km. Railway station is at Guruvayoor at a distance of 1.5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 37
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 10689
* Literate male population: 4974 (86.23%)
* Literate female population: 5715 (86.92%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Guruvayoor (2 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 18 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 10 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 30 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 30 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 1.5 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 11 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Guruvayoor (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (30 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (34 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (30 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (30 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kunnamkulam (7 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kunnamkulam (5 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kunnamkulam (5 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (30 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kunnamkulam (5 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Guruvayoor (1 km) .
 
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Iringaprom (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Beedi,Concrete products,Copra


== Market and Banking ==


There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Chavakkad]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


