{{Infobox settlement
| name=Iriveri (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kannur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=11.77
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=17231
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1463
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1188
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=85.14%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627243
| footnotes=
}}

== Iriveri (CT) (627243) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Iriveri (CT) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 11.77 sq. km. and harbouring 3564 households with total population of 17231 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 15 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 525 km. Male population is 7873 and female population is 9358. Scheduled Caste population is 229 and Scheduled Tribes population is 25. Census Location Code of the town is 627243<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 75 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 104 km. Railway station is at Kannur at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2996 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 14671 (85.14%)
* Literate male population: 6724 (85.41%)
* Literate female population: 7947 (84.92%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kannur (15 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 15 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 17 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 15 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 15 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 15 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 15 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 11 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 11 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Ancharakandy  (7 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thottada (15 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (20 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (8 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (15 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kannur (15 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kannur (15 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kannur (15 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Mavilayi  (9 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kannur (15 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kannur (15 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kannur (22 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Iriveri (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Beedi,Handloom


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 6 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


