{{Infobox settlement
| name=Iroopara (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Thiruvananthapuram 
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=12.34
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=23113
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1873
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1070
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=86.47%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628512
| footnotes=
}}

== Iroopara (CT) (628512) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Iroopara (CT) is a town in the [[Thiruvananthapuram ]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 12.34 sq. km. and harbouring 5837 households with total population of 23113 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 15 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 15 km. Male population is 11163 and female population is 11950. Scheduled Caste population is 1878 and Scheduled Tribes population is 189. Census Location Code of the town is 628512<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 15 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 15 km. Railway station is at Chirayinkeezhu at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1828 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 19985 (86.47%)
* Literate male population: 9812 (87.9%)
* Literate female population: 10173 (85.13%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 500 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Attingal (25 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There are 3 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 11 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 8 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thiruvananthapuram (17 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thiruvananthapuram (14 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Thiruvananthapuarm (16 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thiruvananthapuram (16 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Public Library is at Thiruvananthapuram (16 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Iroopara (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice


== Market and Banking ==
There are 4 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thiruvananthapuram  tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thiruvananthapuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


