{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kadannappalli (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kannur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=18.08
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=10430
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=576
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1151
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=83.46%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627222
| footnotes=
}}

== Kadannappalli (CT) (627222) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kadannappalli (CT) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 18.08 sq. km. and harbouring 2606 households with total population of 10430 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 35 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 530 km. Male population is 4848 and female population is 5582. Scheduled Caste population is 343 and Scheduled Tribes population is 41. Census Location Code of the town is 627222<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 36 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 120 km. Railway station is at Pazhayangadi at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2990 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 8705 (83.46%)
* Literate male population: 4172 (86.06%)
* Literate female population: 4533 (81.21%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Payyannur (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 12 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 8 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 2 km .
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 42 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 3 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 5 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 6 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Payyannur  (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (120 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (25 km) .
 
There is 1 private Medical College in the town.The nearest private Medical College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (35 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kannur (35 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Korom (20 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Ezhome (11 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Cheruthazham (5 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Cherukunnu  (17 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Cheruthazham (5 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kannur (35 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Payyannur (11 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kunhimangalam (9 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kadannappalli (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Tarpolin  sheet


== Market and Banking ==


There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


