{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628010
|native_name=Kadamakkudy (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kanayannur
|subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Ernakulam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kanayannur]]
|Nearest city=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=12.92
|elevation_m=
|population_total=16295
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1261
|population_blank1=8185
|population_blank2=8110
|female_per_1000_male=990
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kadamakkudy (CT) (628010) ==

Kadamakkudy (CT) is a town in the [[Kanayannur]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 12.92 sq. km. and harbouring 4017 households with total population of 16295 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 16 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 240 km. Male population is 8185 and female population is 8110. Scheduled Caste population is 1156 and Scheduled Tribes population is 27. Census Location Code of the town is 628010<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 10 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 10 km. Railway station is at Ernakulam town at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3053 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 14341
* Literate male population: 7265 (88.76%)
* Literate female population: 7076 (87.25%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1000 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Paravur (14 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 11 km .
There are 2 Alternative Medicine hospitals in the town.
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
There is 1 Mobile health clinic in the town.
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.

There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kochi (14 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (14 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (14 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thirkkakkara (12 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kalamassery (14 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalamassery (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kochi (14 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kochi (14 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kochi (14 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kochi (14 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kochi (14 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kochi (10 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kadamakkudy (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): "paper plate,glass",Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==


There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Kanayannur]]
[[Categories:Ernakulam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


