{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627246
|native_name=Kadachira (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kannur
|subdivision_name2=Kannur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kannur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kannur]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=7.94
|elevation_m=
|population_total=18979
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2390
|population_blank1=8698
|population_blank2=10281
|female_per_1000_male=1181
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kadachira (CT) (627246) ==

Kadachira (CT) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 7.94 sq. km. and harbouring 4127 households with total population of 18979 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 8 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 528 km. Male population is 8698 and female population is 10281. Scheduled Caste population is 290 and Scheduled Tribes population is 58. Census Location Code of the town is 627246<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 78 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 104 km. Railway station is at Kannur at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2996 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 16652
* Literate male population: 7595 (87.32%)
* Literate female population: 9057 (88.09%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 450 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kannur (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 14 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 14 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 14 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 8 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thottada (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (22 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (22 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (20 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (30 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Edakkad (6 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Mavilayi  (3 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kannur (8 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kannur (8 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kannur (12 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kadachira (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut  products,Beedi,Handloom


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 14 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Kannur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


