{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627284
|native_name=Kadirur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Thalassery
|subdivision_name2=Kannur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kannur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Thalassery]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=12.3
|elevation_m=
|population_total=31087
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2527
|population_blank1=13926
|population_blank2=17161
|female_per_1000_male=1232
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kadirur (CT) (627284) ==

Kadirur (CT) is a town in the [[Thalassery]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 12.3 sq. km. and harbouring 6817 households with total population of 31087 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 23 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 499 km. Male population is 13926 and female population is 17161. Scheduled Caste population is 366 and Scheduled Tribes population is 75. Census Location Code of the town is 627284<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 75 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 75 km. Railway station is at Thalassery at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3335 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 27403
* Literate male population: 12231 (87.83%)
* Literate female population: 15172 (88.41%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 75 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thalassery (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 26 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 6 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 7 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 7 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 22 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 6 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 7 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 17 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Koothuparamba (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Palayad (13 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (40 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (18 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Eranholi (7 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thottada  (40 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada (22 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Dharmadom (11 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Koothuparamba (14 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thalassery (8 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thalassery (8 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Thalassery (8 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 7 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kadirur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Beedi,Handloom,Garments


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Thalassery]]
[[Categories:Kannur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


