{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627988
|native_name=Kadungalloor (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Paravur
|subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Ernakulam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Paravur]]
|Nearest city=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=15.88
|elevation_m=
|population_total=39666
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2497
|population_blank1=19852
|population_blank2=19814
|female_per_1000_male=998
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kadungalloor (CT) (627988) ==

Kadungalloor (CT) is a town in the [[Paravur]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 15.88 sq. km. and harbouring 9512 households with total population of 39666 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 15 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 210 km. Male population is 19852 and female population is 19814. Scheduled Caste population is 3192 and Scheduled Tribes population is 144. Census Location Code of the town is 627988<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 26 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 26 km. Railway station is at Aluva at a distance of 6 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3053 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 115
* Literate male population: 57 (0.29%)
* Literate female population: 58 (0.29%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 700 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Aluva (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 15 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There are 6 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 6 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There are 6 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 9 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Aluva (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (26 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (12 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kalamassery (7 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kalamassery (7 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalamassery (7 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Aluva (6 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kochi (15 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Aluva (6 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Old Age Homes in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Aluva (6 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Aluva (6 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kadungalloor (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Aluminium,Zinc,Paper pulp


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 4 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 4 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 3 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Paravur]]
[[Categories:Ernakulam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


