{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627875
|native_name=Kaipamangalam (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kodungallur
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kodungallur]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=13.7
|elevation_m=
|population_total=35626
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2600
|population_blank1=16290
|population_blank2=19336
|female_per_1000_male=1186
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kaipamangalam (CT) (627875) ==

Kaipamangalam (CT) is a town in the [[Kodungallur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 13.7 sq. km. and harbouring 8495 households with total population of 35626 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 44 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 304 km. Male population is 16290 and female population is 19336. Scheduled Caste population is 3414 and Scheduled Tribes population is 82. Census Location Code of the town is 627875<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 44 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 50 km. Railway station is at Irinjalakuda at a distance of 30 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 30
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 29969
* Literate male population: 13745 (84.38%)
* Literate female population: 16224 (83.91%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Irinjalakuda (18 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 9 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 35 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 9 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thrissur (38 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (44 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (45 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (44 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (44 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Nattika (2 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Valappad (10 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Edavilangu (10 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Irinjalakuda (11 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kodungallur (15 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Irinjalakuda (15 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Irinjalakuda (18 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Perinjanam (2 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kaipamangalam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir matress


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Kodungallur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


