{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627424
|native_name=Kakkodi (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kozhikode
|subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kozhikode]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kozhikode]]
|Nearest city=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=18.64
|elevation_m=
|population_total=42866
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2299
|population_blank1=20434
|population_blank2=22432
|female_per_1000_male=1097
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kakkodi (CT) (627424) ==

Kakkodi (CT) is a town in the [[Kozhikode]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 18.64 sq. km. and harbouring 10163 households with total population of 42866 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 10 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 425 km. Male population is 20434 and female population is 22432. Scheduled Caste population is 3745 and Scheduled Tribes population is 70. Census Location Code of the town is 627424<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 10 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 10 km. Railway station is at Kozhikode at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2710 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 37853
* Literate male population: 18204 (89.09%)
* Literate female population: 19649 (87.59%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kozhikode (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 9 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 9 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 9 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 9 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 13 km .
There are 6 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 12 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 13 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
There is 1 private Degree College of Science only in the town. 
There is 1 private Degree College of Commerce only in the town. 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Science in the town. 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Commerce in the town. 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kozhikode (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (10 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at West hill (8 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kozhikode (9 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kozhikode (10 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kozhikode (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kozhikode (9 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Chevayoor (20 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (6 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 5 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kakkodi (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Soap,Steel almirah,Furniture


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 5 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Kozhikode district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


