{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kakkanad (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kanayannur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=17.54
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=25531
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1455
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1002
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=84.38%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628007
| footnotes=
}}

== Kakkanad (CT) (628007) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kakkanad (CT) is a town in the [[Kanayannur]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 17.54 sq. km. and harbouring 6422 households with total population of 25531 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 0 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 225 km. Male population is 12750 and female population is 12781. Scheduled Caste population is 4010 and Scheduled Tribes population is 112. Census Location Code of the town is 628007<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 5 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 5 km. Railway station is at Ernakulam town at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3653 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 21543 (84.38%)
* Literate male population: 10952 (85.9%)
* Literate female population: 10591 (82.87%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 780 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kochi (3 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Science only in the town. 
There is 1 private Degree College of Commerce only in the town. 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kochi (3 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (5 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (5 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrippunithura  (3 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrippunithura (3 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kochi (5 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kochi (5 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kochi (3 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 government Orphanage Home in the town.There are 2 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Working Women's Hostel in the town.There are 2 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kochi (4 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kochi (3 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kakkanad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Medical equipments,Electronic items


== Market and Banking ==
There are 8 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kanayannur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernakulam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


