{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kalamassery (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kanayannur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=27
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=71038
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2631
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1010
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803289
| footnotes=
}}

== Kalamassery (M) (803289) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kalamassery (M) is a town in the [[Kanayannur]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 27 sq. km. and harbouring 17844 households with total population of 71038 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 8 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 235 km. Male population is 35331 and female population is 35707. Scheduled Caste population is 5630 and Scheduled Tribes population is 384. Census Location Code of the town is 803289<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (Population 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 8 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 8 km. Railway station is at Kalamassery at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3053 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 500 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Aluva (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 24 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 9 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 9 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 9 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 32 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 18 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 15 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There are 2 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (8 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College - University in the town.The nearest private Degree College - University is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 government Medical College in the town.The nearest private Medical College is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Engineering Colleges in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Management Institute in the town.There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Polytechnics in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Kochi (5 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kochi (4 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 4 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 9 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Old Age Homes in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kochi (5 km) .
There are 3 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 10 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 3 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kalamassery (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Tyres,Machine tools,Chemicals


== Market and Banking ==
There are 9 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 8 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kanayannur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernakulam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


