{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627562
|native_name=Kalady (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Ponnani
|subdivision_name2=Malappuram
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Malappuram]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Ponnani]]
|Nearest city=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=16.89
|elevation_m=
|population_total=25872
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1531
|population_blank1=12140
|population_blank2=13732
|female_per_1000_male=1131
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kalady (CT) (627562) ==

Kalady (CT) is a town in the [[Ponnani]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 16.89 sq. km. and harbouring 5320 households with total population of 25872 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 41 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 319 km. Male population is 12140 and female population is 13732. Scheduled Caste population is 3942 and Scheduled Tribes population is 38. Census Location Code of the town is 627562<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 41 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 20 km. Railway station is at Kuttippuram at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2200 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 20774
* Literate male population: 9899 (81.54%)
* Literate female population: 10875 (79.19%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Ponnani (13 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 4 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 4 km .
There are 6 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 11 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 11 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 11 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 11 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 15 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 8 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 5 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Ponnani (13 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (34 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (16 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (34 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kuttippuram (8 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kuttippuram (8 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Tirur (8 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Edappal  (38 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Ponnani (13 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Ponnani (13 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Ponnani  (4 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Ponnani (13 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Tavanur (8 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Ponnani (13 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Edappal (8 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Edappal (8 km) .
The nearest private Public Library is at Edappal (8 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kalady (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==


There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Ponnani]]
[[Categories:Malappuram district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


