{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kalady (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Aluva
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=10.32
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=20380
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1974
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1020
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=85.99%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627971
| footnotes=
}}

== Kalady (CT) (627971) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kalady (CT) is a town in the [[Aluva]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 10.32 sq. km. and harbouring 5139 households with total population of 20380 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 35 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 240 km. Male population is 10086 and female population is 10294. Scheduled Caste population is 1047 and Scheduled Tribes population is 18. Census Location Code of the town is 627971<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 30 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 30 km. Railway station is at Angamaly at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3053 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 26


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 17524 (85.99%)
* Literate male population: 8816 (87.41%)
* Literate female population: 8708 (84.59%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Angamaly (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 22 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 18 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 13 km .
There are 9 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 14 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 7 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (30 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College - University in the town.The nearest private Degree College - University is at  (0 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (14 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Mattoor (3 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Angamaly (10 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Koovappady (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Angamaly (11 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Mattoor (31 km) .
There is 1 private other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Aluva (5 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Aluva (4 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kalady (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice ,Metal crusher,Rubber products


== Market and Banking ==
There are 6 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Aluva tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernakulam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


