{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kallelibhagom (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kollam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Karunagappally
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=8.95
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=21723
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2427
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1085
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=83.86%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628367
| footnotes=
}}

== Kallelibhagom (CT) (628367) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kallelibhagom (CT) is a town in the [[Karunagappally]] taluka of [[Kollam]] district with an area of 8.95 sq. km. and harbouring 5477 households with total population of 21723 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kollam]] is at a distance of 24 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 91 km. Male population is 10417 and female population is 11306. Scheduled Caste population is 2689 and Scheduled Tribes population is 51. Census Location Code of the town is 628367<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 24 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 91 km. Railway station is at Karunagappally at a distance of 2 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2420.3 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 38
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 18216 (83.86%)
* Literate male population: 8869 (85.14%)
* Literate female population: 9347 (82.67%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1000 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Karunagappally (2 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 10 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 3 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 3 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 3 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 3 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Karunagappally (2 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Karunagappally (2 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Karunagappally (2 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (91 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (91 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kulasekharapuram (14 km) .
There is 1 government Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Chavara (10 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Karunagappally (2 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Chavara  (10 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kulasekharapuram  (5 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kollam (24 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Oachira  (10 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kollam (26 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Karunagappally (3 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kallelibhagom (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Wire cut bricks,Handloom cloths,Halwa


== Market and Banking ==


There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Karunagappally tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kollam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


