{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627927
|native_name=Kallettumkara (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Mukundapuram
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Mukundapuram]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=4.76
|elevation_m=
|population_total=7097
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1490
|population_blank1=3402
|population_blank2=3695
|female_per_1000_male=1086
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kallettumkara (CT) (627927) ==

Kallettumkara (CT) is a town in the [[Mukundapuram]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 4.76 sq. km. and harbouring 1785 households with total population of 7097 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 32 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 276 km. Male population is 3402 and female population is 3695. Scheduled Caste population is 1038 and Scheduled Tribes population is 26. Census Location Code of the town is 627927<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 32 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 82 km. Railway station is at Irinjalakuda at a distance of 2 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 6113
* Literate male population: 2930 (86.13%)
* Literate female population: 3183 (86.14%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Irinjalakuda (22 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 3 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 8 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 1 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 13 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Alur (3 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Irinjalakuda (2 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (32 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (23 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (32 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kodakara (4 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Irinjalakuda (2 km) .
There is 1 private Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Irinjalakuda (2 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Irinjalakuda (2 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Irinjalakuda (2 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Irinjalakuda (2 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Irinjalakuda (2 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Irinjalakuda (2 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kallettumkara (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Cattle feed,Coconut oil,Electrical items


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Mukundapuram]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


