{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627938
|native_name=Kallur Vadakkummuri (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Mukundapuram
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Mukundapuram]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=17.64
|elevation_m=
|population_total=25259
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1431
|population_blank1=12166
|population_blank2=13093
|female_per_1000_male=1076
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kallur Vadakkummuri (CT) (627938) ==

Kallur Vadakkummuri (CT) is a town in the [[Mukundapuram]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 17.64 sq. km. and harbouring 6410 households with total population of 25259 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 35 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 245 km. Male population is 12166 and female population is 13093. Scheduled Caste population is 2865 and Scheduled Tribes population is 43. Census Location Code of the town is 627938<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 35 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 50 km. Railway station is at Divine nagar at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 107
* Literate male population: 55 (0.45%)
* Literate female population: 52 (0.4%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Chalakudy (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 11 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 7 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 7 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 3 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 35 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 6 km .
There are 5 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Chalakudy (8 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Chalakudy (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (35 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (24 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (35 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Valiyaparambu (15 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Chalakudy (8 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Koratty (12 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Irinjalakuda (20 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kallur thekkummuri (ct) (11 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Irinjalakuda (20 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Chalakudy (8 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Chalakudy (8 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kallur Vadakkummuri (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Tile,Bricks,Furniture


== Market and Banking ==

There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Mukundapuram]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


