{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628517
|native_name=Kalliyoor (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Thiruvananthapuram 
|subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thiruvananthapuram]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Thiruvananthapuram ]]
|Nearest city=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=16.43
|elevation_m=
|population_total=40816
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2484
|population_blank1=20078
|population_blank2=20738
|female_per_1000_male=1032
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kalliyoor (CT) (628517) ==

Kalliyoor (CT) is a town in the [[Thiruvananthapuram ]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 16.43 sq. km. and harbouring 10482 households with total population of 40816 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 12 km. Male population is 20078 and female population is 20738. Scheduled Caste population is 6689 and Scheduled Tribes population is 144. Census Location Code of the town is 628517<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 12 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 12 km. Railway station is at Thiruvananthapuram at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1828 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 27
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 34919
* Literate male population: 17400 (86.66%)
* Literate female population: 17519 (84.48%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 200 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Vizhinjam (7 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 10 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 6 km .
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 22 km .
There are 5 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 10 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thiruvananthapuram (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (12 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thiruvananthapuram (12 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thiruvananthapuram (12 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thiruvananthapuram (16 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thiruvananthapuram (12 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Thiruvananthapuram (12 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Thiruvananthapuram (12 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thiruvananthapuram (12 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Thiruvananthapuram (12 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Thiruvananthapuram (12 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Thiruvananthapuarm (9 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kalliyoor (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 5 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram ]]
[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


