{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627229
|native_name=Kalliasseri (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kannur
|subdivision_name2=Kannur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kannur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kannur]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=15.74
|elevation_m=
|population_total=31122
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1977
|population_blank1=14111
|population_blank2=17011
|female_per_1000_male=1205
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kalliasseri (CT) (627229) ==

Kalliasseri (CT) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 15.74 sq. km. and harbouring 7149 households with total population of 31122 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 13 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 513 km. Male population is 14111 and female population is 17011. Scheduled Caste population is 1497 and Scheduled Tribes population is 87. Census Location Code of the town is 627229<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 57 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 96 km. Railway station is at Kannapuram at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2996 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 26785
* Literate male population: 12231 (86.68%)
* Literate female population: 14554 (85.56%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Taliparamba (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 13 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 13 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 13 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 13 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 13 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 13 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 2 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (96 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College - University in the town.The nearest private Degree College - University is at  (0 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kadannappalli  (13 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (7 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kannur (7 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kannur (13 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Cherukunnu  (7 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kannur (13 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kannur (13 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Pariyaram (16 km) .
There are 3 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 8 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kalliasseri (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom,Plywood,Beedi


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 4 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Kannur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


