{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kallur Thekkummuri (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Mukundapuram
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=12.5
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=17480
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1398
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1080
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=86.62%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627940
| footnotes=
}}

== Kallur Thekkummuri (CT) (627940) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kallur Thekkummuri (CT) is a town in the [[Mukundapuram]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 12.5 sq. km. and harbouring 4466 households with total population of 17480 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 50 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 332 km. Male population is 8401 and female population is 9079. Scheduled Caste population is 1521 and Scheduled Tribes population is 17. Census Location Code of the town is 627940<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 50 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 45 km. Railway station is at Koratty at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 15142 (86.62%)
* Literate male population: 7360 (87.61%)
* Literate female population: 7782 (85.71%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 150 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Chalakudy (18 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 11 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 18 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 15 km .
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 15 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 9.5 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
There is 1 Mobile health clinic in the town.
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 10 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 7 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Irinjalakuda (16 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (50 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (27 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (50 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kuruvilassery (6 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Mala (7 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Koratty (5 km) .
 
There are 6 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government other educational facilitiess in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Irinjalakuda (27 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Annamanada (1 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kallur Thekkummuri (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Ayurvedic medicine,Match box,Inverter


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Mukundapuram tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


