{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kalpetta (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Wayanad
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Vythiri
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=40.74
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=31580
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=775
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1050
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803264
| footnotes=
}}

== Kalpetta (M) (803264) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kalpetta (M) is a town in the [[Vythiri]] taluka of [[Wayanad]] district with an area of 40.74 sq. km. and harbouring 7519 households with total population of 31580 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kalpetta]] is at a distance of 0 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 507 km. Male population is 15401 and female population is 16179. Scheduled Caste population is 2200 and Scheduled Tribes population is 3228. Census Location Code of the town is 803264<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 68 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 68 km. Railway station is at Kozhikode at a distance of 68 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2570 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 28
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 20


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 4 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
There is 1 Mobile health clinic in the town.
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 37 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 8 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 22 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 8 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 5 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (68 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (73 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (68 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Mananthavady (43 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kozhikode (68 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Meenangadi (14 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Vadakara (78 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Muttil (7 km) .
There is 1 government Working Women's Hostel in the town.There are 3 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Old Age Homes in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 5 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kalpetta (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Processed coffee


== Market and Banking ==
There are 9 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 5 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 5 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 3 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Wayanad]]
[[Categories:Towns in Vythiri tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Wayanad district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


