{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kanayannur (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kanayannur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=7.38
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=9308
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1261
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1013
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=89.03%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628013
| footnotes=
}}

== Kanayannur (CT) (628013) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kanayannur (CT) is a town in the [[Kanayannur]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 7.38 sq. km. and harbouring 2346 households with total population of 9308 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 5 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 220 km. Male population is 4622 and female population is 4686. Scheduled Caste population is 1160 and Scheduled Tribes population is 26. Census Location Code of the town is 628013<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (Population 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 18 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 18 km. Railway station is at Kureekkad at a distance of 2 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3110 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 8287 (89.03%)
* Literate male population: 4158 (89.96%)
* Literate female population: 4129 (88.11%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 500 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrippunithura (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 18 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 2 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 4 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 24 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kochi (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (18 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (2 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Edakkattuvayal (8 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thiruvankulam (7 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thirkkakkara (20 km) .
 
There are 2 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Special School for Disableds in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kochi (4 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kochi (4 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kochi (16 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Thiruvankulam (4 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Kureekkad (2 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kanayannur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Electronics items,Paint,Rubber sheet


== Market and Banking ==


There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kanayannur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernakulam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


