{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kanhangad (M + OG)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kasaragod
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Hosdurg
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=70.47
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=125564
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1781
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1144
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=16.22%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803256
| footnotes=
}}

== Kanhangad (M + OG) (803256) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kanhangad (M + OG) is a town in the [[Hosdurg]] taluka of [[Kasaragod]] district with an area of 70.47 sq. km. and harbouring 27579 households with total population of 125564 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kasaragod]] is at a distance of 23 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 565 km. Male population is 58564 and female population is 67000. Scheduled Caste population is 3958 and Scheduled Tribes population is 896. Census Location Code of the town is 803256<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class I (Population > 1,00,000).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 0 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 158 km. Railway station is at Kanhangad at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3401 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 20362 (16.22%)
* Literate male population: 9606 (16.4%)
* Literate female population: 10756 (16.05%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 350 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There are 5 Alternative Medicine hospitals in the town.
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 17 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 40 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 7 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
There are 2 Mobile health clinics in the town.
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 34 km .
There are 15 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 12 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 32 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 16 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 16 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 15 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 18 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 13 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 6 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 11 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts only in the town.There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There are 4 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (20 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Pariyaram (40 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kasaragod (23 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kasaragod (23 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.There is 1 private Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There are 5 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kudlu (32 km) .
There is 1 private other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 2 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Working Women's Hostel in the town.There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Chittarikkal (40 km) .
There are 4 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 20 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Public Librarys in the town.There are 5 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kanhangad (M + OG) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Copra,Paddy,Cashew nut


== Market and Banking ==
There are 19 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 6 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 13 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 3 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 8 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Towns in Hosdurg tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kasaragod district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


