{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kaniyarkode (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Talappilly
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=12.29
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=13236
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1076
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1050
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=79.25%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627756
| footnotes=
}}

== Kaniyarkode (CT) (627756) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kaniyarkode (CT) is a town in the [[Talappilly]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 12.29 sq. km. and harbouring 3282 households with total population of 13236 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 48 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 327 km. Male population is 6455 and female population is 6781. Scheduled Caste population is 2444 and Scheduled Tribes population is 7. Census Location Code of the town is 627756<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 48 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 95 km. Railway station is at Lakkidi at a distance of 4 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 10489 (79.25%)
* Literate male population: 5362 (83.07%)
* Literate female population: 5127 (75.61%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 125 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Ottappalam (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 30 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 4 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 7 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Ottappalam (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (48 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (50 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (48 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Pambady (3 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thrissur (3 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kunnamkulam  (20 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Palakkad (30 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (48 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thiruvilwamala (3 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Ottappalam (9 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Pampady (5 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Palakkad (30 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Ottappalam (12 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kaniyarkode (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Textiles handloom,Candle,Match boxes


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Talappilly tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


