{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kanjiramkulam (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Neyyattinkara
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=9.69
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=19902
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2053
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1031
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=83.17%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628545
| footnotes=
}}

== Kanjiramkulam (CT) (628545) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kanjiramkulam (CT) is a town in the [[Neyyattinkara]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 9.69 sq. km. and harbouring 5197 households with total population of 19902 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 23 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 23 km. Male population is 9795 and female population is 10107. Scheduled Caste population is 1510 and Scheduled Tribes population is 22. Census Location Code of the town is 628545<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 23 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 23 km. Railway station is at Balaramapuram at a distance of 6 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1828 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 16552 (83.17%)
* Literate male population: 8239 (84.11%)
* Literate female population: 8313 (82.25%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Neyyattinkara (20 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 9 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 6 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (23 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (23 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thiruvananthapuram (23 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thiruvananthapuram (23 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thiruvananthapuram (23 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Neyyattinkara (20 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Neyyattinkara (9 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Neyyattinkara (10 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Athiyannur (5 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Thiruvananthapuram (23 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Neyyattinkara (4 km) .
There are 5 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kanjiramkulam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Neyyattinkara tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thiruvananthapuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


