{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kanjikkuzhi (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Cherthala
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=12.86
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=23681
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1841
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1047
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=89.26%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628224
| footnotes=
}}

== Kanjikkuzhi (CT) (628224) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kanjikkuzhi (CT) is a town in the [[Cherthala]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 12.86 sq. km. and harbouring 6017 households with total population of 23681 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 160 km. Male population is 11566 and female population is 12115. Scheduled Caste population is 1452 and Scheduled Tribes population is 46. Census Location Code of the town is 628224<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 12 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 59 km. Railway station is at Mararikkulam at a distance of 2 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1935 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 21138 (89.26%)
* Literate male population: 10405 (89.96%)
* Literate female population: 10733 (88.59%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Cherthala (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 6 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 16 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 16 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Mararikkulam (4 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (59 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (14 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (24 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Pallippuram (12 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Cherthala (12 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Cherthala (12 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Cherthala (12 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Cherthala (6 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Alappuzha  (12 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Alappuzha (16 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Alappuzha (6 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Alappuzha (8 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kanjikkuzhi (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir,Handicrafts


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Towns in Cherthala tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Alappuzha district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


