{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kannadiparamba (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kannur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=8.93
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=13677
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1531
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1258
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=81.3%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627234
| footnotes=
}}

== Kannadiparamba (CT) (627234) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kannadiparamba (CT) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 8.93 sq. km. and harbouring 2791 households with total population of 13677 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 528 km. Male population is 6056 and female population is 7621. Scheduled Caste population is 1439 and Scheduled Tribes population is 37. Census Location Code of the town is 627234<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 65 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 102 km. Railway station is at Kannur at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2995 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 29
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 27


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 11120 (81.3%)
* Literate male population: 4991 (82.41%)
* Literate female population: 6129 (80.42%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 300 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kannur (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 15 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 2 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
There are 2 Other medical amenitiess in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 2 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Valapattanam (12 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Puzhathi  (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (102 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (22 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (35 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (26 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kannur (26 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Edakkad (20 km) .
 
There are 3 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kannur (12 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Pallikkunnu (18 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kannur (12 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kannur (12 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Pallikkunnu (12 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kannadiparamba (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom,Blackboard


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 4 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


