{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kannur (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kannur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=11.03
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=56823
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=5151
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1160
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803259
| footnotes=
}}

== Kannur (M) (803259) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kannur (M) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 11.03 sq. km. and harbouring 11418 households with total population of 56823 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 0 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 515 km. Male population is 26298 and female population is 30525. Scheduled Caste population is 2674 and Scheduled Tribes population is 159. Census Location Code of the town is 803259<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (Population 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 65 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 90 km. Railway station is at Kannur at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2996 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1100 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
There are 2 Alternative Medicine hospitals in the town.
There are 11 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 53 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 28 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 142 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 14 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 5 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 7 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 7 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There are 6 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (15 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (15 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kadannappalli  (15 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Taliparamba (16 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada  (18 km) .
 
There are 17 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.There are 10 private Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Cherukunnu  (13 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 government Orphanage Home in the town.There are 3 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.There are 2 private stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 18 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kannur (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Textiles,Beedi,Plywood


== Market and Banking ==
There are 31 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 11 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 12 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 3 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 26 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


