{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kannur Cantonment (CB)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kannur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=1.79
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=4798
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2680
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=407
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803260
| footnotes=
}}

== Kannur Cantonment (CB) (803260) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kannur Cantonment (CB) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 1.79 sq. km. and harbouring 772 households with total population of 4798 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 1 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 528 km. Male population is 3408 and female population is 1390. Scheduled Caste population is 194 and Scheduled Tribes population is 23. Census Location Code of the town is 803260<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class VI (Population < 5,000).
The civic status of the town is ''.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 66 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 89 km. Railway station is at Kannur at a distance of 1 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2657.7 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 30
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1000 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There are 2 Allopathic hospital facilitys in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 3 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 3 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 19 km .
There are 8 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kannur (2 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (15 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (15 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kadannappalli  (15 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (1 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kannur (3 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada  (7 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kannur (1 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kannur (1 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Cherukunnu  (14 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kannur (1 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kannur (1 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kannur (1 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kannur (1 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
 


== Manufacturing ==
Kannur Cantonment (CB) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): 


== Market and Banking ==


There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


