{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627226
|native_name=Kannapuram (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kannur
|subdivision_name2=Kannur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kannur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kannur]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=14.34
|elevation_m=
|population_total=18459
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1287
|population_blank1=8220
|population_blank2=10239
|female_per_1000_male=1245
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kannapuram (CT) (627226) ==

Kannapuram (CT) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 14.34 sq. km. and harbouring 4531 households with total population of 18459 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 17 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 530 km. Male population is 8220 and female population is 10239. Scheduled Caste population is 1299 and Scheduled Tribes population is 23. Census Location Code of the town is 627226<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 45 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 112 km. Railway station is at Kannapuram at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2995 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 15998
* Literate male population: 7225 (87.9%)
* Literate female population: 8773 (85.68%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kannur (17 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 17 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 17 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 17 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 17 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 17 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 11 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.

There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Madayi (7 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (112 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (10 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kadannappalli  (20 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (15 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kannur (15 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Edakkad (23 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kannur (17 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Cheruthazham (16 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Cherukunnu  (4 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kannur (17 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kannur (17 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Cherukunnu  (6 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kannur (17 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 10 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kannapuram (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom,Bakery  products,Clay products


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Kannur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


