{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628287
|native_name=Kannamangalam (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Mavelikkara
|subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Alappuzha]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Mavelikkara]]
|Nearest city=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=12.62
|elevation_m=
|population_total=23344
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1849
|population_blank1=10873
|population_blank2=12471
|female_per_1000_male=1146
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kannamangalam (CT) (628287) ==

Kannamangalam (CT) is a town in the [[Mavelikkara]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 12.62 sq. km. and harbouring 6169 households with total population of 23344 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 43 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 117 km. Male population is 10873 and female population is 12471. Scheduled Caste population is 4039 and Scheduled Tribes population is 90. Census Location Code of the town is 628287<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 43 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 96 km. Railway station is at Mavelikkara at a distance of 2 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1936 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 20647
* Literate male population: 9633 (88.6%)
* Literate female population: 11014 (88.32%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Mavelikkara (2 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 18 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 14 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 2 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 3 km .
There is 1 Mobile health clinic in the town.
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 26 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Mavelikkara (2 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (96 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (36 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (42 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Chengannur (15 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Chengannur (15 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kayamkulam (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Mavelikkara (2 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Mavelikkara (2 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kayamkulam (18 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Mavelikkara  (2 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Mavelikkara (2 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Mavelikkara  (8 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Mavelikkara (2 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Mavelikkara (3 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kannamangalam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Clay brick,Hollow bricks,Cotton thread


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Mavelikkara]]
[[Categories:Alappuzha district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


