{{Infobox settlement
| name=Karakulam (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Nedumangad
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=13.3
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=29624
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2227
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1054
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=85.91%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628504
| footnotes=
}}

== Karakulam (CT) (628504) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Karakulam (CT) is a town in the [[Nedumangad]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 13.3 sq. km. and harbouring 7689 households with total population of 29624 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 10 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 10 km. Male population is 14420 and female population is 15204. Scheduled Caste population is 2043 and Scheduled Tribes population is 115. Census Location Code of the town is 628504<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 10 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 10 km. Railway station is at Thiruvananthapuram at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1827 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 30.8
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.4


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 25450 (85.91%)
* Literate male population: 12603 (87.4%)
* Literate female population: 12847 (84.5%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 4000 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Nedumangad (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 8 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 15 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 35 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thiruvananthapuram (4 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Nedumangad (8 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Nedumangad (8 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Thiruvananthapuarm (10 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thiruvananthapuram (13 km) .
The nearest government Cinema Theatre is at Thiruvananthapuram  (6 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Thiruvananthapuram (9 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Karakulam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Electronic equipments(keltron)


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.


There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Nedumangad tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thiruvananthapuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


