{{Infobox settlement
| name=Karivellur (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Taliparamba
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=11.33
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=13498
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1191
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1158
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=87.09%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627209
| footnotes=
}}

== Karivellur (CT) (627209) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Karivellur (CT) is a town in the [[Taliparamba]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 11.33 sq. km. and harbouring 3463 households with total population of 13498 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 50 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 545 km. Male population is 6252 and female population is 7246. Scheduled Caste population is 530 and Scheduled Tribes population is 12. Census Location Code of the town is 627209<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 30 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 120 km. Railway station is at North thrikkaripur at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2995 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 11756 (87.09%)
* Literate male population: 5569 (89.08%)
* Literate female population: 6187 (85.39%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrikkaripur (7 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 12 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 8 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 4 km .
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 11 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Payyannur  (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (22 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (22 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Taliparamba (10 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Taliparamba  (10 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Taliparamba  (10 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at North thrikkaripur  (6 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Payyannur (8 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Peralam (4 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Cherukunnu  (15 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Taliparamba (10 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Payyannur (8 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kadannappalli (15 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Payyannur (8 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Payyannur (8 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Karivellur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice,Cloth


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 4 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Taliparamba tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


