{{Infobox settlement
| name=Karikkad (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Talappilly
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=6.66
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=13656
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2050
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1101
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=83.73%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627763
| footnotes=
}}

== Karikkad (CT) (627763) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Karikkad (CT) is a town in the [[Talappilly]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 6.66 sq. km. and harbouring 3116 households with total population of 13656 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 35 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 330 km. Male population is 6498 and female population is 7158. Scheduled Caste population is 1698 and Scheduled Tribes population is 10. Census Location Code of the town is 627763<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 35 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 115 km. Railway station is at Wadakkanchery at a distance of 35 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 11434 (83.73%)
* Literate male population: 5461 (84.04%)
* Literate female population: 5973 (83.45%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 740 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kunnamkulam (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 10 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 7 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 2 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 22 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 15 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Commerce only in the town. 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thrissur (35 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (35 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (35 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (35 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kadangode (5 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Desamangalam  (12 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kunnamkulam (10 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Pazhanji  (8 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (35 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kunnamkulam (10 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Pazhanji (5 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Karikkad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Plastic goods


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Talappilly tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


