{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628368
|native_name=Karunagappally (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Karunagappally
|subdivision_name2=Kollam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kollam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Karunagappally]]
|Nearest city=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=8.43
|elevation_m=
|population_total=25336
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=3005
|population_blank1=12219
|population_blank2=13117
|female_per_1000_male=1073
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Karunagappally (CT) (628368) ==

Karunagappally (CT) is a town in the [[Karunagappally]] taluka of [[Kollam]] district with an area of 8.43 sq. km. and harbouring 6310 households with total population of 25336 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kollam]] is at a distance of 22 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 110 km. Male population is 12219 and female population is 13117. Scheduled Caste population is 2235 and Scheduled Tribes population is 82. Census Location Code of the town is 628368<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 22 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 110 km. Railway station is at Karunagappally at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2480 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 21754
* Literate male population: 10661 (87.25%)
* Literate female population: 11093 (84.57%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 500 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 16 km .
There are 7 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There are 4 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 5 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 19 km .
There are 5 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 40 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts and Commerces in the town. 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (110 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (110 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kulasekharapuram (13 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thodiyoor (5 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Chavara (15 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Chavara  (15 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kulasekharapuram  (4 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kollam (22 km) .
There are 2 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kollam (22 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kollam (22 km) .
There are 3 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Karunagappally (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir,Cashew nut,Copra


== Market and Banking ==
There are 7 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 6 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 6 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Karunagappally]]
[[Categories:Kollam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


