{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627438
|native_name=Karuvanthuruthy (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kozhikode
|subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kozhikode]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kozhikode]]
|Nearest city=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=5.88
|elevation_m=
|population_total=21952
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=3733
|population_blank1=10505
|population_blank2=11447
|female_per_1000_male=1089
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Karuvanthuruthy (CT) (627438) ==

Karuvanthuruthy (CT) is a town in the [[Kozhikode]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 5.88 sq. km. and harbouring 4585 households with total population of 21952 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 13 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 414 km. Male population is 10505 and female population is 11447. Scheduled Caste population is 2174 and Scheduled Tribes population is 34. Census Location Code of the town is 627438<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 13 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 13 km. Railway station is at Feroke at a distance of 1 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2704 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 18365
* Literate male population: 8951 (85.21%)
* Literate female population: 9414 (82.24%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 200 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kozhikode (13 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 15 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 18 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 18 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 2 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 1 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.

There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Feroke (2 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Manjeri (9 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (13 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (18 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (13 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kozhikode (13 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kunnamangalam (32 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kozhikode (13 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kasaba (15 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Cheruvannur (7 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Malappuram (3 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kozhikode (13 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Ramanattukara (12 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Feroke (3 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Feroke (2 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Feroke (2 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Feroke (2 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Karuvanthuruthy (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Tiles,Cartons,Coir


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Kozhikode district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


