{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627987
|native_name=Karumalloor (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Paravur
|subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Ernakulam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Paravur]]
|Nearest city=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=19.01
|elevation_m=
|population_total=29805
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1567
|population_blank1=14452
|population_blank2=15353
|female_per_1000_male=1062
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Karumalloor (CT) (627987) ==

Karumalloor (CT) is a town in the [[Paravur]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 19.01 sq. km. and harbouring 7186 households with total population of 29805 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 22 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 220 km. Male population is 14452 and female population is 15353. Scheduled Caste population is 4613 and Scheduled Tribes population is 170. Census Location Code of the town is 627987<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 22 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 22 km. Railway station is at Aluva at a distance of 9 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3049 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 25013
* Literate male population: 12410 (85.87%)
* Literate female population: 12603 (82.09%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 170 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Paravur (7 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 19 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 11 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 7 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 7 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 7 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There are 2 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.There are 2 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (22 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (20 km) .
 
There are 2 government Medical Colleges in the town.There are 2 private Medical Colleges in the town.The nearest private Medical College is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Engineering Colleges in the town.There are 2 private Engineering Colleges in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Management Institutes in the town.There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Polytechnics in the town.There are 2 private Polytechnics in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There are 2 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.There are 2 private Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Special School for Disableds in the town.There are 2 private Special School for Disableds in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kochi (12 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 2 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Paravur (4 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Paravur (8 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Karumalloor (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rubber products,Bricks,Tiles


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Paravur]]
[[Categories:Ernakulam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


