{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kasaragod (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kasaragod
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kasaragod
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=16.69
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=54172
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=3245
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1058
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803255
| footnotes=
}}

== Kasaragod (M) (803255) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kasaragod (M) is a town in the [[Kasaragod]] taluka of [[Kasaragod]] district with an area of 16.69 sq. km. and harbouring 10202 households with total population of 54172 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kasaragod]] is at a distance of 0 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 630 km. Male population is 26319 and female population is 27853. Scheduled Caste population is 1543 and Scheduled Tribes population is 166. Census Location Code of the town is 803255<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (Population 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 35 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 209 km. Railway station is at Kasaragod at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3401 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1000 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There are 2 Alternative Medicine hospitals in the town.
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 35 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 16 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 13 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 33 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 19 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 8 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (38 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (38 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Mangalore (55 km) .
There is 1 government Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Periya (18 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Old Age Homes in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kasaragod (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Copra,Handloom,Beedi


== Market and Banking ==
There are 13 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 10 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 11 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 3 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kasaragod tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kasaragod district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


