{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627532
|native_name=Kattipparuthi (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Tirur
|subdivision_name2=Malappuram
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Malappuram]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Tirur]]
|Nearest city=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=21.9
|elevation_m=
|population_total=40318
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1841
|population_blank1=19407
|population_blank2=20911
|female_per_1000_male=1077
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kattipparuthi (CT) (627532) ==

Kattipparuthi (CT) is a town in the [[Tirur]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 21.9 sq. km. and harbouring 7684 households with total population of 40318 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 35 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 359 km. Male population is 19407 and female population is 20911. Scheduled Caste population is 3342 and Scheduled Tribes population is 111. Census Location Code of the town is 627532<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 35 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 60 km. Railway station is at Kuttippuram at a distance of 9 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2769 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 33024
* Literate male population: 16015 (82.52%)
* Literate female population: 17009 (81.34%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 200 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Tirur (25 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 8 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 25 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 25 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 25 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 35 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 35 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 15 km .
There are 6 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 6 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 25 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 8 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Science in the town. 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Tirur (25 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (24 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (38 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (60 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kuttippuram (35 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Malappuram (35 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Tirur (25 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Tirur (25 km) .
There is 1 government other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Tirur (25 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Tirur (25 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Tavanur (25 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Tirur (25 km) .
There are 4 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Cheriyamundam (12 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kattipparuthi (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil,Wooden furniture


== Market and Banking ==
There are 4 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 4 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Tirur]]
[[Categories:Malappuram district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


