{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628291
|native_name=Kattanam (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Mavelikkara
|subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Alappuzha]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Mavelikkara]]
|Nearest city=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=12.91
|elevation_m=
|population_total=19504
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1510
|population_blank1=8989
|population_blank2=10515
|female_per_1000_male=1169
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kattanam (CT) (628291) ==

Kattanam (CT) is a town in the [[Mavelikkara]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 12.91 sq. km. and harbouring 5209 households with total population of 19504 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 52 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 112 km. Male population is 8989 and female population is 10515. Scheduled Caste population is 3191 and Scheduled Tribes population is 31. Census Location Code of the town is 628291<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 52 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 100 km. Railway station is at Kayamkulam at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1936 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 16966
* Literate male population: 7856 (87.4%)
* Literate female population: 9110 (86.64%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kayamkulam (7 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 8 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 15 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 3 km .
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There are 2 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 38 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 6 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 10 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 9 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kayamkulam (7 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (100 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (38 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (60 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Bharanikkavu (4 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Chengannur (60 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kayamkulam (8 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kayamkulam (14 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Mavelikkara  (12 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Mavelikkara (12 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Mavelikkara (12 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kattanam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Wooden  furniture


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Mavelikkara]]
[[Categories:Alappuzha district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


