{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803300
|native_name=Kayamkulam (M)
|subdivision_name3=Karthikappally
|subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Alappuzha]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Karthikappally]]
|Nearest city=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=21.79
|elevation_m=
|population_total=68634
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=3149
|population_blank1=32784
|population_blank2=35850
|female_per_1000_male=1093
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kayamkulam (M) (803300) ==

Kayamkulam (M) is a town in the [[Karthikappally]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 21.79 sq. km. and harbouring 16392 households with total population of 68634 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 46 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 103 km. Male population is 32784 and female population is 35850. Scheduled Caste population is 4477 and Scheduled Tribes population is 137. Census Location Code of the town is 803300<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (population_total 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 46 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 105 km. Railway station is at Kayamkulam at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2624 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: #N/A
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 454 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There are 2 Allopathic hospital facilitys in the town.
There are 3 Alternative Medicine hospitals in the town.
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 46 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 46 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 20 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 41 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 6 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 12 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 6 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 9 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (105 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (22 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (46 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Alappuzha  (46 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Alappuzha (46 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Alappuzha (46 km) .
There are 3 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 8 government Public Librarys in the town.There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kayamkulam (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir,"curry powder, rice powder",Match box


== Market and Banking ==
There are 10 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 4 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 5 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 13 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Karthikappally]]
[[Categories:Alappuzha district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


