{{Infobox settlement
| name=Keekan (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kasaragod
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Hosdurg
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=4.48
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=9735
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2172
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1195
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=74.69%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627168
| footnotes=
}}

== Keekan (CT) (627168) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Keekan (CT) is a town in the [[Hosdurg]] taluka of [[Kasaragod]] district with an area of 4.48 sq. km. and harbouring 1831 households with total population of 9735 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kasaragod]] is at a distance of 22 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 542 km. Male population is 4435 and female population is 5300. Scheduled Caste population is 26 and Scheduled Tribes population is 26. Census Location Code of the town is 627168<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (Population 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 7 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 151 km. Railway station is at Pallikkara at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3450 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 7271 (74.69%)
* Literate male population: 3433 (77.41%)
* Literate female population: 3838 (72.42%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 325 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kanhangad (7 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 1 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 7 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 7 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 3 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 7 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Pallikkara (1 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Pallikkara  (1 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kanhangad (7 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (16 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (16 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Pariyaram (47 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kasaragod (22 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kasaragod (22 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kanhangad (8 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Udma (4 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Mavungal (11 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kanhangad (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Pallikkara (1 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kanhangad (8 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Chittarikkal (42 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Pallikkara (1 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Pallikkara (1 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Pallikara (1 km) .
There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Keekan (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Beedi,Steel items


== Market and Banking ==


There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Towns in Hosdurg tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kasaragod district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


