{{Infobox settlement
| name=Keerikkad (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Karthikappally
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=5.26
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=10465
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1989
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1171
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=87.08%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628262
| footnotes=
}}

== Keerikkad (CT) (628262) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Keerikkad (CT) is a town in the [[Karthikappally]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 5.26 sq. km. and harbouring 2821 households with total population of 10465 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 28 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 120 km. Male population is 4819 and female population is 5646. Scheduled Caste population is 964 and Scheduled Tribes population is 71. Census Location Code of the town is 628262<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 28 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 98 km. Railway station is at Kayamkulam at a distance of 6 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1894 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 9113 (87.08%)
* Literate male population: 4249 (88.17%)
* Literate female population: 4864 (86.15%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kayamkulam (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 4 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 15 km .
There are 4 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
There are 3 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 6 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 19 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Muthukulam (3 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kayamkulam (5 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (98 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (29 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (34 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Chengannur (34 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kayamkulam (16 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kayamkulam (16 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kayamkulam (6 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Haripad  (12 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Haripad (12 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Haripad (12 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kayamkulam (6 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Cheppad (11 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Haripad (18 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Mavelikkara (8 km) .
There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Keerikkad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Paddy,Coconut oil,Coir


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There are 4 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 4 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 3 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Towns in Karthikappally tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Alappuzha district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


