{{Infobox settlement
| name=Keezhariyur (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Quilandy
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=13.69
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=15116
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1104
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1140
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=84.64%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627394
| footnotes=
}}

== Keezhariyur (CT) (627394) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Keezhariyur (CT) is a town in the [[Quilandy]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 13.69 sq. km. and harbouring 3670 households with total population of 15116 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 45 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 449 km. Male population is 7061 and female population is 8055. Scheduled Caste population is 1372 and Scheduled Tribes population is 21. Census Location Code of the town is 627394<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 45 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 45 km. Railway station is at Quilandy at a distance of 13 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2710 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 12794 (84.64%)
* Literate male population: 6167 (87.34%)
* Literate female population: 6627 (82.27%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Quilandy (13 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 10 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 20 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 14 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 5 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 7 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Thikkody (4 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Quilandy (13 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (45 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (35 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (45 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Chathamangalam (65 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Meppayur (5 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Payyoli (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Vadakara (20 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kozhikode (45 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kozhikode (45 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kozhikode (45 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kozhikode (45 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (10 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Payyoli (10 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Quilandy (13 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Thikkody (6 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Meppayur (5 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Keezhariyur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Copra,Rice,Rubber products


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Towns in Quilandy tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


