{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627273
|native_name=Keezhallur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Thalassery
|subdivision_name2=Kannur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kannur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Thalassery]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=29.02
|elevation_m=
|population_total=20440
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=704
|population_blank1=9756
|population_blank2=10684
|female_per_1000_male=1095
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Keezhallur (CT) (627273) ==

Keezhallur (CT) is a town in the [[Thalassery]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 29.02 sq. km. and harbouring 4434 households with total population of 20440 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 22 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 540 km. Male population is 9756 and female population is 10684. Scheduled Caste population is 386 and Scheduled Tribes population is 82. Census Location Code of the town is 627273<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 82 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 102 km. Railway station is at Kannur at a distance of 22 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2996 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 17397
* Literate male population: 8419 (86.3%)
* Literate female population: 8978 (84.03%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Mattannur (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 8 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 8 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There are 2 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 4 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 11 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 8 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Mattannur (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Palayad (27 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (30 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (25 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (22 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thottada  (22 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Mattannur (8 km) .
 
There are 8 private Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kannur (22 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Koothuparamba (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kannur (22 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kannur (22 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kannur (22 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kannur (22 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Mattannur  (5 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Keezhallur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Plywood,Textiles,Hollow bricks


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Thalassery]]
[[Categories:Kannur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


