{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628474
|native_name=Keezhattingal (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Chirayinkeezhu
|subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thiruvananthapuram]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Chirayinkeezhu]]
|Nearest city=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=6.92
|elevation_m=
|population_total=15185
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2194
|population_blank1=6819
|population_blank2=8366
|female_per_1000_male=1226
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Keezhattingal (CT) (628474) ==

Keezhattingal (CT) is a town in the [[Chirayinkeezhu]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 6.92 sq. km. and harbouring 3800 households with total population of 15185 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 36 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 36 km. Male population is 6819 and female population is 8366. Scheduled Caste population is 3178 and Scheduled Tribes population is 22. Census Location Code of the town is 628474<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 36 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 36 km. Railway station is at Kadakkavoor at a distance of 3 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1820 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 30


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 12352
* Literate male population: 5713 (83.78%)
* Literate female population: 6639 (79.36%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is  kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Attingal (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 8 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 35 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 30 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Alamcode (8 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Alamcode (8 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Attingal (4 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (36 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (36 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Nedumangad (35 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Nagaroor (25 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thiruvananthapuram (36 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Attingal (9 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Attingal  (4 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Attingal (25 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Attingal (3 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Chemmaruthy (9 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Attingal (12 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Attingal (10 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Attngal (5 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Keezhattingal (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Chirayinkeezhu]]
[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


