{{Infobox settlement
| name=Killannur (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Thrissur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=21.22
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=20339
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=958
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1052
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=86.44%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627825
| footnotes=
}}

== Killannur (CT) (627825) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Killannur (CT) is a town in the [[Thrissur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 21.22 sq. km. and harbouring 5083 households with total population of 20339 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 17 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 307 km. Male population is 9910 and female population is 10429. Scheduled Caste population is 1908 and Scheduled Tribes population is 33. Census Location Code of the town is 627825<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 17 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 74 km. Railway station is at Thrissur at a distance of 17 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35.5
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 17582 (86.44%)
* Literate male population: 8644 (87.23%)
* Literate female population: 8938 (85.7%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrissur (17 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 9 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 2 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 15 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.

There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 10 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thrissur (17 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (17 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (6 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (17 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (17 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (17 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (17 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Peringandoor (3 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (17 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Peringandoor (8 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (17 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government Cinema Theatre is at Thrissur (10 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Thrissur (10 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Killannur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Asbestos sheet,Plastic prducts,M sand


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.


There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


