{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kizhuparamba (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Malappuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Ernad
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=15
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=22062
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1470
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1040
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=83.12%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627465
| footnotes=
}}

== Kizhuparamba (CT) (627465) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kizhuparamba (CT) is a town in the [[Ernad]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 15 sq. km. and harbouring 4500 households with total population of 22062 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 35 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 435 km. Male population is 10810 and female population is 11252. Scheduled Caste population is 1921 and Scheduled Tribes population is 42. Census Location Code of the town is 627465<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 35 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 35 km. Railway station is at Kozhikode at a distance of 35 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2200 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 27


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 18338 (83.12%)
* Literate male population: 9106 (84.24%)
* Literate female population: 9232 (82.05%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Malappuram (35 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 7 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
There is 1 Other medical amenities in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts and Commerces in the town. 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Malappuram (35 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (16 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (25 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (35 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kozhikode (20 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kozhikode (35 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kozhikode (35 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kozhikode (35 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Malappuram (35 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Malappuram (35 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Malappuram (35 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (35 km) .
There is 1 private stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Mukkam (14 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Arecode (5 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kizhuparamba (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Black stone metal,Bricks and tiles


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernad tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Malappuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


