{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kizhuvalam-Koonthalloor (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Chirayinkeezhu
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=13.56
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=30770
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2269
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1212
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=83.29%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628476
| footnotes=
}}

== Kizhuvalam-Koonthalloor (CT) (628476) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kizhuvalam-Koonthalloor (CT) is a town in the [[Chirayinkeezhu]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 13.56 sq. km. and harbouring 7649 households with total population of 30770 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 40 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 40 km. Male population is 13908 and female population is 16862. Scheduled Caste population is 6024 and Scheduled Tribes population is 25. Census Location Code of the town is 628476<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 40 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 40 km. Railway station is at Chirayinkeezhu at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1820 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 30


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 25628 (83.29%)
* Literate male population: 11797 (84.82%)
* Literate female population: 13831 (82.02%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 160 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Attingal (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 13 km .
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 7 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 25 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 28 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 7 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 5 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Attingal (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (40 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (40 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Nedumangad (33 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Attingal (20 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thiruvananthapuram (40 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Attingal (20 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Attingal  (4 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Attingal (20 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Attingal (4 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Edakkode  (13 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Attingal (30 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Attingal (30 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Attingal (10 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Attngal (10 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kizhuvalam-Koonthalloor (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Chirayinkeezhu tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thiruvananthapuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


