{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kizhakkumbhagom (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Aluva
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=7.13
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=10791
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1513
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1028
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=88.18%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627977
| footnotes=
}}

== Kizhakkumbhagom (CT) (627977) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kizhakkumbhagom (CT) is a town in the [[Aluva]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 7.13 sq. km. and harbouring 2714 households with total population of 10791 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 43 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 260 km. Male population is 5320 and female population is 5471. Scheduled Caste population is 648 and Scheduled Tribes population is 33. Census Location Code of the town is 627977<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 36 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 36 km. Railway station is at Chowwara at a distance of 6 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3056 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 39
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 9516 (88.18%)
* Literate male population: 4732 (88.95%)
* Literate female population: 4784 (87.44%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1000 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Angamaly (16 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 7 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 17 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 15 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at Vadakkumbhagom (2 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Kalady (8 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Mattoor (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (36 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalady (12 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (30 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Mattoor (10 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thirkkakkara (24 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Koovappady (16 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Aluva (16 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Manjapra (22 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kalady (14 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Aluva (3 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Perumbavoor (13 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Vadakkumbhagam (3 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Perumbavoor (13 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kalady (7 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Vadakkumbhagom (2 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Vadakkumbhagom (2 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kizhakkumbhagom (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Spices,Rubber products


== Market and Banking ==


There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Aluva tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernakulam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


