{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803288
|native_name=Kochi (M Corp.) (Part)
|subdivision_name3=Kanayannur
|subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Ernakulam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kanayannur]]
|Nearest city=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=55.3
|elevation_m=
|population_total=336048
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=6076
|population_blank1=164795
|population_blank2=171253
|female_per_1000_male=1039
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kochi (M Corp.) (Part) (803288) ==

Kochi (M Corp.) (Part) is a town in the [[Kanayannur]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 55.3 sq. km. and harbouring 87252 households with total population of 336048 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 219 km. Male population is 164795 and female population is 171253. Scheduled Caste population is 13172 and Scheduled Tribes population is 1437. Census Location Code of the town is 803288<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class I (population_total > 1,00,000).
The civic status of the town is ''.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 0 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 0 km. Railway station is at Ernakulam  at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3053 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 20315
* Literate male population: 10016 (6.08%)
* Literate female population: 10299 (6.01%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 5095 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kochi (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
There are 3 Allopathic hospital facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 22 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 4 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There are 6 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
There are 3 T.B. clinics in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 5 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
There are 4 Mobile health clinics in the town.
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 45 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 22 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 480 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 29 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 51 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 22 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 48 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 40 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 37 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 11 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 30 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Degree College of Arts onlys in the town.There are 14 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There are 3 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.There are 14 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College - Law in the town.The nearest private Degree College - Law is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (6 km) .
 
There is 1 private Medical College in the town.The nearest private Medical College is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Management Institutes in the town.There are 10 private Management Institutes in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Polytechnics in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.There are 3 private Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Special School for Disableds in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 4 government Orphanage Homes in the town.There are 10 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Working Women's Hostel in the town.There are 42 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.There are 12 private Old Age Homes in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 government stadiums in the town.There are 2 private stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 15 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.There are 56 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kochi (M Corp.) (Part) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): "heritage goods, fishing",Foot wears,Food products


== Market and Banking ==
There are 218 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 45 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 34 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 9 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 73 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Kanayannur]]
[[Categories:Ernakulam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


