{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kochi (M Corp. + OG) (Part)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kochi
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=45.47
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=274350
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=6033
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1013
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=7.4%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803288
| footnotes=
}}

== Kochi (M Corp. + OG) (Part) (803288) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kochi (M Corp. + OG) (Part) is a town in the [[Kochi]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 45.47 sq. km. and harbouring 65469 households with total population of 274350 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 219 km. Male population is 136262 and female population is 138088. Scheduled Caste population is 6903 and Scheduled Tribes population is 788. Census Location Code of the town is 803288<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class I (Population > 1,00,000).
The civic status of the town is ''.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 0 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 0 km. Railway station is at Ernakulam at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3053 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 30


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 20315 (7.4%)
* Literate male population: 10016 (7.35%)
* Literate female population: 10299 (7.46%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 2000 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There are 4 Allopathic hospital facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Alternative Medicine hospitals in the town.
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 10 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 48 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 20 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 250 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Commerce only in the town. 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kochi (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (12 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (10 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kalamassery (10 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kalamassery (10 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalamassery (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kochi (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kochi (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kochi (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kochi (10 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Kochi (12 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kochi (10 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Njarakkal (7 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Kochi (10 km) .
The nearest private Public Library is at Kochi (10 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kochi (M Corp. + OG) (Part) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Bread,Furniture


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kochi tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernakulam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


