{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628217
|native_name=Kodamthuruth (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Cherthala
|subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Alappuzha]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Cherthala]]
|Nearest city=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=10.9
|elevation_m=
|population_total=21295
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1953
|population_blank1=10365
|population_blank2=10930
|female_per_1000_male=1054
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kodamthuruth (CT) (628217) ==

Kodamthuruth (CT) is a town in the [[Cherthala]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 10.9 sq. km. and harbouring 5130 households with total population of 21295 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 37 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 195 km. Male population is 10365 and female population is 10930. Scheduled Caste population is 3708 and Scheduled Tribes population is 77. Census Location Code of the town is 628217<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 37 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 52 km. Railway station is at Thuravoor at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1936 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 18385
* Literate male population: 9207 (88.83%)
* Literate female population: 9178 (83.97%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Cherthala (14 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 20 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 37 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 4 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Cherthala (14 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (52 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (16 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (35 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Pallippuram (14 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Cherthala (14 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Cherthala (14 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Cherthala (14 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Alappuzha  (37 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Arookutty  (15 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Cherthala (14 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Alappuzha (33 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Cherthala (13 km) .
The nearest government Cinema Theatre is at Cherthala (13 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Cherthala (13 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kodamthuruth (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir products


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Cherthala]]
[[Categories:Alappuzha district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


