{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627857
|native_name=Kodannur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Thrissur
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Thrissur]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=5.03
|elevation_m=
|population_total=7655
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1521
|population_blank1=3707
|population_blank2=3948
|female_per_1000_male=1065
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kodannur (CT) (627857) ==

Kodannur (CT) is a town in the [[Thrissur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 5.03 sq. km. and harbouring 1838 households with total population of 7655 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 10 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 313 km. Male population is 3707 and female population is 3948. Scheduled Caste population is 951 and Scheduled Tribes population is 2. Census Location Code of the town is 627857<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 10 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 70 km. Railway station is at Thrissur at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2764 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 37
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 6731
* Literate male population: 3288 (88.7%)
* Literate female population: 3443 (87.21%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrissur (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 2 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 3 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 11 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 3 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 18 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at Venginissery (2 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Paralam (2 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (28 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Cherpu (5 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Paralam (2 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Thrissur (11 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (11 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Cherpu (5 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kodannur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice,Cashew nut


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


