{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kodungallur (M + OG)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kodungallur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=26.82
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=60190
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2244
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1115
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=37.07%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803281
| footnotes=
}}

== Kodungallur (M + OG) (803281) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kodungallur (M + OG) is a town in the [[Kodungallur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 26.82 sq. km. and harbouring 14835 households with total population of 60190 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 38 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 270 km. Male population is 28452 and female population is 31738. Scheduled Caste population is 4698 and Scheduled Tribes population is 84. Census Location Code of the town is 803281<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (Population 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 38 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 40 km. Railway station is at Irinjalakuda at a distance of 22 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2625 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 37
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 22311 (37.07%)
* Literate male population: 10661 (37.47%)
* Literate female population: 11650 (36.71%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1300 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Irinjalakuda (16 km) .


== Health Services ==
There are 2 Allopathic hospital facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Alternative Medicine hospitals in the town.
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 38 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 2 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 19 km .
There are 32 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 8 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 30 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 8 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 8 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts only in the town.There are 4 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (38 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (40 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (38 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (38 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (38 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Valappad (20 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Irinjalakuda (11 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Irinjalakuda (25 km) .
There are 3 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kodungallur (M + OG) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir products,Dry coconut powder,Foam bed


== Market and Banking ==
There are 4 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 5 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 13 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 3 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kodungallur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


