{{Infobox settlement
| name=Koduvayur (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Palakkad
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Chittur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=11.47
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=20703
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1804
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Palakkad (m)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1020
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=81.09%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627682
| footnotes=
}}

== Koduvayur (CT) (627682) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Koduvayur (CT) is a town in the [[Chittur]] taluka of [[Palakkad]] district with an area of 11.47 sq. km. and harbouring 4827 households with total population of 20703 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Palakkad]] is at a distance of 10 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 375 km. Male population is 10247 and female population is 10456. Scheduled Caste population is 3721 and Scheduled Tribes population is 11. Census Location Code of the town is 627682<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Palakkad (m) at a distance of 10 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Coimbatore(m corp. )  at a distance of 65 km. Railway station is at Puthunagaram at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2380 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 38
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 16789 (81.09%)
* Literate male population: 8640 (84.32%)
* Literate female population: 8149 (77.94%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 5000 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Chittur (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 8 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 16 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 12 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (40 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (35 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (40 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Malampuzha (15 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Marutharode (14 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Vaniyamkulam- ii  (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Chittur (10 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Palakkad (10 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Palakkad  (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Palakkad (10 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Palakkad (10 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Chittur (8 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Koduvayur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil,Rice


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Palakkad]]
[[Categories:Towns in Chittur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Palakkad district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


