{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627510
|native_name=Kodur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Perinthalmanna
|subdivision_name2=Malappuram
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Malappuram]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Perinthalmanna]]
|Nearest city=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=23.15
|elevation_m=
|population_total=45459
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1963
|population_blank1=21627
|population_blank2=23832
|female_per_1000_male=1101
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kodur (CT) (627510) ==

Kodur (CT) is a town in the [[Perinthalmanna]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 23.15 sq. km. and harbouring 8399 households with total population of 45459 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 4 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 350 km. Male population is 21627 and female population is 23832. Scheduled Caste population is 1416 and Scheduled Tribes population is 88. Census Location Code of the town is 627510<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 4 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 50 km. Railway station is at Angadippuram at a distance of 20 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2502 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32.55
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 37055
* Literate male population: 17646 (81.59%)
* Literate female population: 19409 (81.44%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is  kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Malappuram (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 2 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 2 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 3 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 3 km .
There are 6 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 17 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Malappuram (4 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Perinthalmanna  (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (50 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (40 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College - Others in the town.The nearest private Degree College - Others is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (50 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Perinthalmanna (24 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kozhikode (52 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Angadippuram (18 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Malappuram (4 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Malappuram (3 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Malappuram (4 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Malappuram (4 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Perinthalmanna  (12 km) .
 
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Perinthalmanna  (5 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kodur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil,Ditergent soap,Curry powder


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 4 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Perinthalmanna]]
[[Categories:Malappuram district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


