{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627287
|native_name=Kolavelloor (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Thalassery
|subdivision_name2=Kannur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kannur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Thalassery]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=14.11
|elevation_m=
|population_total=19817
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1404
|population_blank1=9110
|population_blank2=10707
|female_per_1000_male=1175
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kolavelloor (CT) (627287) ==

Kolavelloor (CT) is a town in the [[Thalassery]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 14.11 sq. km. and harbouring 4372 households with total population of 19817 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 41 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 511 km. Male population is 9110 and female population is 10707. Scheduled Caste population is 219 and Scheduled Tribes population is 62. Census Location Code of the town is 627287<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 83 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 83 km. Railway station is at Thalassery at a distance of 19 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3335 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 16473
* Literate male population: 7638 (83.84%)
* Literate female population: 8835 (82.52%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 500 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Koothuparamba (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 7 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 14 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 19 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 19 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 41 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 6 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 19 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 6 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 7 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Koothuparamba (4 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Palayad (23 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (36 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (28 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Eranholi (24 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thottada  (41 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Mattannur (34 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Panoor (7 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Dharmadom (23 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Koothuparamba (19 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Panoor (7 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thalassery (19 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Thalassery (14 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Panoor (7 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kolavelloor (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Pickles,Furniture


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 5 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Thalassery]]
[[Categories:Kannur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


