{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kolacherry (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Taliparamba
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=10.89
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=17095
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1569
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1178
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=80.77%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627215
| footnotes=
}}

== Kolacherry (CT) (627215) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kolacherry (CT) is a town in the [[Taliparamba]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 10.89 sq. km. and harbouring 3307 households with total population of 17095 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 16 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 530 km. Male population is 7847 and female population is 9248. Scheduled Caste population is 922 and Scheduled Tribes population is 30. Census Location Code of the town is 627215<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 96 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 120 km. Railway station is at Kannur at a distance of 16 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2990 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 13808 (80.77%)
* Literate male population: 6515 (83.03%)
* Literate female population: 7293 (78.86%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kannur (16 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 2 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 2 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 16 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 15 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 8 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Mayyil (6 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (15 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (15 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Pariyaram (26 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Taliparamba  (16 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Taliparamba (16 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalliassery (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Mayyil (8 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Andoor (5 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Cherukunnu  (16 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Thottada (23 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Pallikkunnu (14 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Pallikkunnu (14 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kannur (16 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Kalliyassery (15 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kolacherry (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Laterite stone


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 5 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Taliparamba tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


