{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kolazhy (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Thrissur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=5.6
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=11540
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2060
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1059
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=88.95%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627835
| footnotes=
}}

== Kolazhy (CT) (627835) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kolazhy (CT) is a town in the [[Thrissur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 5.6 sq. km. and harbouring 2952 households with total population of 11540 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 6 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 297 km. Male population is 5603 and female population is 5937. Scheduled Caste population is 674 and Scheduled Tribes population is 39. Census Location Code of the town is 627835<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 6 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 80 km. Railway station is at Mulamkunnathukavu at a distance of 3 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2744 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 27


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 10265 (88.95%)
* Literate male population: 5010 (89.42%)
* Literate female population: 5255 (88.51%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrissur (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 6 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 12 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (11 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (6 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Athani (6 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (6 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Peramangalam (7 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (4 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Thrissur (7 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kolazhy (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Hollow bricks,Plastic container,Thermister


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


