{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803306
|native_name=Kollam (M Corp. + OG) (Part)
|subdivision_name3=Kollam
|subdivision_name2=Kollam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kollam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kollam]]
|Nearest city=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=57.48
|elevation_m=
|population_total=350131
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=6091
|population_blank1=168715
|population_blank2=181416
|female_per_1000_male=1075
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kollam (M Corp. + OG) (Part) (803306) ==

Kollam (M Corp. + OG) (Part) is a town in the [[Kollam]] taluka of [[Kollam]] district with an area of 57.48 sq. km. and harbouring 84464 households with total population of 350131 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kollam]] is at a distance of 0 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 71 km. Male population is 168715 and female population is 181416. Scheduled Caste population is 27292 and Scheduled Tribes population is 805. Census Location Code of the town is 803306<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class I (population_total > 1,00,000).
The civic status of the town is ''.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 0 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 71 km. Railway station is at Kollam at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2790 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 30


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 14485
* Literate male population: 7204 (4.27%)
* Literate female population: 7281 (4.01%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 17340 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There are 6 Allopathic hospital facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 8 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 26 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 8 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 2 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 21 km .
There are 69 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 38 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 339 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 20 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 51 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 12 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 25 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 10 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 13 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 9 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 9 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Commerce only in the town. 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kottarakkara  (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (71 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (71 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College - Others in the town.The nearest private Degree College - Others is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Medical College is at Kulasekharapuram (16 km) .
There are 3 private Engineering Colleges in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Karunagappally (14 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private other educational facilitiess in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 3 government Orphanage Homes in the town.There are 6 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 11 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 37 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 45 government Public Librarys in the town.There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kollam (M Corp. + OG) (Part) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil,Coir


== Market and Banking ==
There are 45 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 17 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 9 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 10 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 23 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Kollam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


