{{Infobox settlement
| name=Komalapuram (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Ambalappuzha
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=13.65
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=47126
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=3452
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1054
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=87.76%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628234
| footnotes=
}}

== Komalapuram (CT) (628234) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Komalapuram (CT) is a town in the [[Ambalappuzha]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 13.65 sq. km. and harbouring 11741 households with total population of 47126 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 4 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 161 km. Male population is 22941 and female population is 24185. Scheduled Caste population is 2166 and Scheduled Tribes population is 153. Census Location Code of the town is 628234<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 4 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 54 km. Railway station is at Alappuzha at a distance of 4 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1936 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 41357 (87.76%)
* Literate male population: 20356 (88.73%)
* Literate female population: 21001 (86.83%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 200 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Alappuzha (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
There are 4 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
There are 2 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 9 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 22 km .
There are 16 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 10 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Alappuzha (5 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (54 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (24 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (4 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Alappuzha  (4 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Alappuzha (4 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Alappuzha (4 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Alappuzha (4 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Alappuzha  (4 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Alappuzha  (4 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Alappuzha (6 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Alappuzha (4 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Alappuzha (4 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Alappuzha (8 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Alappuzha (4 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.There are 4 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Komalapuram (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir,Bricks


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.


There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ambalappuzha tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Alappuzha district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


