{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kondotty (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Malappuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Ernad
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=10.86
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=28794
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2651
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1051
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=81.51%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627468
| footnotes=
}}

== Kondotty (CT) (627468) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kondotty (CT) is a town in the [[Ernad]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 10.86 sq. km. and harbouring 5436 households with total population of 28794 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 22 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 375 km. Male population is 14036 and female population is 14758. Scheduled Caste population is 3139 and Scheduled Tribes population is 37. Census Location Code of the town is 627468<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 22 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 30 km. Railway station is at Feroke at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2200 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 30.9
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21.9


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 23469 (81.51%)
* Literate male population: 11626 (82.83%)
* Literate female population: 11843 (80.25%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 660 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Malappuram (22 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 20 km .
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 6 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 4 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 38 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 38 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 38 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 5 km .
There are 7 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 27 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 12 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (35 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (30 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thenhippalam (12 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thenhippalam (12 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Thenhippalam (15 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Malappuram (22 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Pulikkal (10 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Malappuram (22 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (38 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Cherukavu (4 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kondotty (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Pickles ,Soaps 


== Market and Banking ==
There are 5 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 6 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernad tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Malappuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


