{{Infobox settlement
| name=Koodali (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Thalassery
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=16.85
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=15236
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=904
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1153
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=86.07%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627272
| footnotes=
}}

== Koodali (CT) (627272) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Koodali (CT) is a town in the [[Thalassery]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 16.85 sq. km. and harbouring 3447 households with total population of 15236 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 20 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 525 km. Male population is 7074 and female population is 8162. Scheduled Caste population is 288 and Scheduled Tribes population is 31. Census Location Code of the town is 627272<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 79 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 105 km. Railway station is at Kannur at a distance of 22 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3000 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 13113 (86.07%)
* Literate male population: 6116 (86.46%)
* Literate female population: 6997 (85.73%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 120 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Mattannur (15 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 3 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 3 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 22 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 22 km .
There is 1 Other medical amenities in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Mattannur (15 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Palayad (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (18 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (12 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (35 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thottada  (20 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Edakkad (22 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kannur (22 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Dharmadom (25 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Koothuparamba (6 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Chavasserry (20 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kannur (22 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kannur (20 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kannur (20 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Mattannur  (10 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Mattannur (3 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Koodali (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom,Beedi


== Market and Banking ==


There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thalassery tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


