{{Infobox settlement
| name=Koothali (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Quilandy
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=8.24
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=11389
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1382
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1061
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=84.05%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627388
| footnotes=
}}

== Koothali (CT) (627388) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Koothali (CT) is a town in the [[Quilandy]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 8.24 sq. km. and harbouring 2793 households with total population of 11389 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 53 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 468 km. Male population is 5525 and female population is 5864. Scheduled Caste population is 1227 and Scheduled Tribes population is 23. Census Location Code of the town is 627388<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 53 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 53 km. Railway station is at Quilandy at a distance of 28 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2770 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 9573 (84.05%)
* Literate male population: 4809 (87.04%)
* Literate female population: 4764 (81.24%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Quilandy (28 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 3 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 3 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 3 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 3 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 3 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 3 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 14 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Eravattur (3 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (53 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (32 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (53 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Chathamangalam (35 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Chathamangalam (35 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Vengeri (35 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Perambra (3 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kozhikode (53 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Palayad (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kozhikode (53 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kozhikode (53 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (4 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Perambra (3 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Perambra (3 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Perambra (3 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Koothali (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom,Coconut oil,Wood products


== Market and Banking ==


There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Towns in Quilandy tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


