{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627509
|native_name=Koottilangadi (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Perinthalmanna
|subdivision_name2=Malappuram
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Malappuram]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Perinthalmanna]]
|Nearest city=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=20.89
|elevation_m=
|population_total=36602
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1752
|population_blank1=17734
|population_blank2=18868
|female_per_1000_male=1063
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Koottilangadi (CT) (627509) ==

Koottilangadi (CT) is a town in the [[Perinthalmanna]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 20.89 sq. km. and harbouring 7005 households with total population of 36602 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 3 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 400 km. Male population is 17734 and female population is 18868. Scheduled Caste population is 2132 and Scheduled Tribes population is 49. Census Location Code of the town is 627509<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 3 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 50 km. Railway station is at Angadippuram at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2502 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32.55
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 30259
* Literate male population: 14671 (82.73%)
* Literate female population: 15588 (82.62%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Malappuram (3 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 3 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 5 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 3 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 3 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 9 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 13 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Perinthalmanna  (19 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (55 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (40 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (50 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Pattikkad (26 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Malappuram (3 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Angadippuram (15 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Malappuram (3 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Malappuram (3 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Malappuram (3 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Perinthalmanna  (13 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Malappuram (4 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Malappuram (4 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Malappuram (4 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Perinthalmanna  (4 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Koottilangadi (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Curry powder flour,Hollow  bricks


== Market and Banking ==


There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Perinthalmanna]]
[[Categories:Malappuram district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


