{{Infobox settlement
| name=Koothuparamba (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Thalassery
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=16.76
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=29619
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1767
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1201
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803262
| footnotes=
}}

== Koothuparamba (M) (803262) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Koothuparamba (M) is a town in the [[Thalassery]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 16.76 sq. km. and harbouring 6465 households with total population of 29619 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 24 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 507 km. Male population is 13454 and female population is 16165. Scheduled Caste population is 402 and Scheduled Tribes population is 108. Census Location Code of the town is 803262<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 82 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 82 km. Railway station is at Thalassery at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3335 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 30
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 150 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 14 km .
There are 6 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 14 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 14 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 14 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 28 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 24 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 23 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 14 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There are 3 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (18 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (37 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (12 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (9 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thottada  (22 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Mattannur (4 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Koothuparamba (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom,Beedi,Banian


== Market and Banking ==
There are 5 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 10 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 4 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thalassery tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


