{{Infobox settlement
| name=Koratty (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Mukundapuram
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=10.13
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=17618
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1739
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1050
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=88.13%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627937
| footnotes=
}}

== Koratty (CT) (627937) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Koratty (CT) is a town in the [[Mukundapuram]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 10.13 sq. km. and harbouring 4544 households with total population of 17618 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 40 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 260 km. Male population is 8593 and female population is 9025. Scheduled Caste population is 1925 and Scheduled Tribes population is 39. Census Location Code of the town is 627937<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 40 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 40 km. Railway station is at Koratty at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 15527 (88.13%)
* Literate male population: 7642 (88.93%)
* Literate female population: 7885 (87.37%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1000 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Chalakudy (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 13 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There are 2 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 33 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 33 km .
There is 1 Other medical amenities in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Chalakudy (5 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (40 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (28 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (40 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Karukutty (7 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kizhakkumury (2 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There are 2 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Chalakudy (6 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kallur thekkummuri (ct) (19 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Chalakudy  (3 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Chalakudy (6 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Meloor (4 km) .
There are 4 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Koratty (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Thread,Paper,Cattle feed


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Mukundapuram tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


