{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kottarakkara (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kollam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kottarakkara
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=17.39
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=29788
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1712
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1116
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=88.13%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628430
| footnotes=
}}

== Kottarakkara (CT) (628430) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kottarakkara (CT) is a town in the [[Kottarakkara]] taluka of [[Kollam]] district with an area of 17.39 sq. km. and harbouring 7669 households with total population of 29788 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kollam]] is at a distance of 27 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 72 km. Male population is 14075 and female population is 15713. Scheduled Caste population is 4234 and Scheduled Tribes population is 78. Census Location Code of the town is 628430<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 27 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 72 km. Railway station is at Kottarakkara at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2790 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 26252 (88.13%)
* Literate male population: 12460 (88.53%)
* Literate female population: 13792 (87.77%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 535 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kollam (27 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 19 km .
There are 10 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 10 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 30 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 9 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 8 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (72 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (72 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kulasekharapuram (16 km) .
There is 1 government Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kollam (27 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Valakam (10 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kollam (27 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kollam (27 km) .
There are 10 government Working Women's Hostels in the town.There are 7 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 9 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kottarakkara (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice,Rubber,Cashew nut


== Market and Banking ==
There are 9 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 10 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 3 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kottarakkara tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kollam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


