{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628444
|native_name=Kottamkara (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kollam
|subdivision_name2=Kollam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kollam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kollam]]
|Nearest city=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=11.32
|elevation_m=
|population_total=44402
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=3922
|population_blank1=21458
|population_blank2=22944
|female_per_1000_male=1069
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kottamkara (CT) (628444) ==

Kottamkara (CT) is a town in the [[Kollam]] taluka of [[Kollam]] district with an area of 11.32 sq. km. and harbouring 10727 households with total population of 44402 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kollam]] is at a distance of 8 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 76 km. Male population is 21458 and female population is 22944. Scheduled Caste population is 6198 and Scheduled Tribes population is 75. Census Location Code of the town is 628444<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 8 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 76 km. Railway station is at Kilikolloor at a distance of 3 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1790 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 30


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 37773
* Literate male population: 18662 (86.97%)
* Literate female population: 19111 (83.29%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 250 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kollam (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 19 km .
There are 4 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 8 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 28 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 18 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (76 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (76 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kulasekharapuram (3 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kollam (8 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kollam (8 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Karunagappally (3 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kollam (8 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kollam (8 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kollam (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kollam (8 km) .
There are 2 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kollam (8 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kollam (8 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kollam (4 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kottamkara (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Wooden furniture,Bricks,M sand and stone metal


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There are 4 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Kollam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


