{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kottappally (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Vadakara
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=16.08
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=21169
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1316
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1125
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=83.31%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627363
| footnotes=
}}

== Kottappally (CT) (627363) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kottappally (CT) is a town in the [[Vadakara]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 16.08 sq. km. and harbouring 4715 households with total population of 21169 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 58 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 530 km. Male population is 9961 and female population is 11208. Scheduled Caste population is 571 and Scheduled Tribes population is 47. Census Location Code of the town is 627363<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 58 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 58 km. Railway station is at Vadakara at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3218 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 17636 (83.31%)
* Literate male population: 8505 (85.38%)
* Literate female population: 9131 (81.47%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Vadakara (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 10 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 58 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 58 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 58 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 37 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 11 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at Ayancheri (5 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Ayancheri (5 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Madappally (15 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (58 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (57 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (58 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Maniyur (16 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kozhikode (58 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Vadakara (10 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Vadakara (10 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Vadakara (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Villiappally  (58 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Vadakara (10 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Vadakara  (8 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Vadakara (10 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Vadakara (10 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Ayancheri  (4 km) .
There are 4 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kottappally (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Copra


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Towns in Vadakara tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


