{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kottayam (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kottayam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kottayam
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=15.99
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=55374
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=3463
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1074
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803296
| footnotes=
}}

== Kottayam (M) (803296) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kottayam (M) is a town in the [[Kottayam]] taluka of [[Kottayam]] district with an area of 15.99 sq. km. and harbouring 14366 households with total population of 55374 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kottayam]] is at a distance of 0 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 152 km. Male population is 26687 and female population is 28687. Scheduled Caste population is 3726 and Scheduled Tribes population is 172. Census Location Code of the town is 803296<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (Population 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 48 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 65 km. Railway station is at Kottayam at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2386 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 6980 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There are 3 Allopathic hospital facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 26 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 4 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 14 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 3 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
There is 1 Other medical amenities in the town.
There are 45 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 13 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 41 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 16 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 32 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 21 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 22 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 8 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There are 3 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College - Law in the town.The nearest private Degree College - Law is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (10 km) .
 
There is 1 private Medical College in the town.The nearest private Medical College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Ettumanoor (14 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Nattakam (5 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 9 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.There are 2 private Old Age Homes in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 26 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.There are 3 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kottayam (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rubber products,Manure


== Market and Banking ==
There are 15 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 30 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 17 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 5 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kottayam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kottayam tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kottayam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


