{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627990
|native_name=Kottuvally (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Paravur
|subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Ernakulam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Paravur]]
|Nearest city=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=21
|elevation_m=
|population_total=42922
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2043
|population_blank1=21034
|population_blank2=21888
|female_per_1000_male=1040
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kottuvally (CT) (627990) ==

Kottuvally (CT) is a town in the [[Paravur]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 21 sq. km. and harbouring 10671 households with total population of 42922 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 28 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 240 km. Male population is 21034 and female population is 21888. Scheduled Caste population is 4793 and Scheduled Tribes population is 451. Census Location Code of the town is 627990<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 30 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 30 km. Railway station is at Aluva at a distance of 19 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3053 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 37290
* Literate male population: 18409 (87.52%)
* Literate female population: 18881 (86.26%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 140 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Paravur (3 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 13 km .
There are 5 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 4 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 24 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 24 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 13 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Paravur (3 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (30 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (18 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (7 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kalamassery (4 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kalamassery (4 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thirkkakkara (7 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Aluva (19 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kochi (15 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Aluva (19 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Aluva (19 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Aluva (19 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Paravur (3 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kottuvally (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Paravur]]
[[Categories:Ernakulam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


