{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kottakkal (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Malappuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Tirur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=20.45
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=44382
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2170
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1122
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=81.17%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627527
| footnotes=
}}

== Kottakkal (CT) (627527) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kottakkal (CT) is a town in the [[Tirur]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 20.45 sq. km. and harbouring 8488 households with total population of 44382 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 18 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 350 km. Male population is 20911 and female population is 23471. Scheduled Caste population is 1171 and Scheduled Tribes population is 113. Census Location Code of the town is 627527<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 18 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 45 km. Railway station is at Tirur at a distance of 19 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2990 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 36023 (81.17%)
* Literate male population: 16962 (81.12%)
* Literate female population: 19061 (81.21%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 500 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Malappuram (18 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 7 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 27 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 27 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 27 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 15 km .
There are 6 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 6 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 50 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 12 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Science in the town. 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College - Law in the town.The nearest private Degree College - Law is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (20 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (45 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kuttippuram (25 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Malappuram (18 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thennala (6 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Malappuram (18 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Malappuram (18 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Malappuram (18 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Tirurangadi (15 km) .
There is 1 government Working Women's Hostel in the town.There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Malappuram (18 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Malappuram (18 km) .
There are 3 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kottakkal (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Ayurvedic medicines,Furniture


== Market and Banking ==
There are 6 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 4 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Tirur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Malappuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


