{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kozhukkully (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Thrissur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=4.28
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=9918
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2317
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1037
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=85.75%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627843
| footnotes=
}}

== Kozhukkully (CT) (627843) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kozhukkully (CT) is a town in the [[Thrissur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 4.28 sq. km. and harbouring 2361 households with total population of 9918 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 305 km. Male population is 4868 and female population is 5050. Scheduled Caste population is 717 and Scheduled Tribes population is 67. Census Location Code of the town is 627843<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (Population 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 12 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 74 km. Railway station is at Thrissur at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 8505 (85.75%)
* Literate male population: 4258 (87.47%)
* Literate female population: 4247 (84.1%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 150 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrissur (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Nadathara (1 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Nadathara (1 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (24 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Chittilappilly (14 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (12 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Nadathara (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Thrissur (8 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest government Cinema Theatre is at Thrissur (8 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Nadathara (1 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Chittilappilly  (6 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kozhukkully (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Ornaments and garments ,Bags making thread rubber,"brick, concrete windows, door frame etc."


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.

There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


