{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kozhenchery (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Pathanamthitta
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kozhenchery
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=9.74
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=12021
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1234
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1148
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=89.44%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628342
| footnotes=
}}

== Kozhenchery (CT) (628342) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kozhenchery (CT) is a town in the [[Kozhenchery]] taluka of [[Pathanamthitta]] district with an area of 9.74 sq. km. and harbouring 3393 households with total population of 12021 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Pathanamthitta]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 125 km. Male population is 5594 and female population is 6427. Scheduled Caste population is 1220 and Scheduled Tribes population is 39. Census Location Code of the town is 628342<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 70 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 125 km. Railway station is at Punalur at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2624 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 10752 (89.44%)
* Literate male population: 4966 (88.77%)
* Literate female population: 5786 (90.03%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Pathanamthitta (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
There are 2 Allopathic hospital facilitys in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 1 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 14 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (125 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (53 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Thiruvalla (18 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Adoor (13 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thiruvalla (13 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Pandalam (17 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Thiruvalla (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 government Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 6 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 3 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kozhenchery (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rubber


== Market and Banking ==
There are 10 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Pathanamthitta]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhenchery tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Pathanamthitta district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


