{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kozhikode (M Corp. + OG)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kozhikode
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=124.57
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=550440
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=4418
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1093
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=4.54%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803267
| footnotes=
}}

== Kozhikode (M Corp. + OG) (803267) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kozhikode (M Corp. + OG) is a town in the [[Kozhikode]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 124.57 sq. km. and harbouring 120213 households with total population of 550440 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 0 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 425 km. Male population is 262939 and female population is 287501. Scheduled Caste population is 22800 and Scheduled Tribes population is 1259. Census Location Code of the town is 803267<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class I (Population > 1,00,000).
The civic status of the town is ''.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 0 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 0 km. Railway station is at Kozhikode at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2540 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 24999 (4.54%)
* Literate male population: 12229 (4.65%)
* Literate female population: 12770 (4.44%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 15000 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There are 9 Allopathic hospital facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Alternative Medicine hospitals in the town.
There are 4 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 5 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There are 5 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
There are 2 T.B. clinics in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 6 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 6 km .
There are 69 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 22 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 730 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 23 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 32 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 15 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 25 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 18 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 18 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Degree College of Arts onlys in the town.There are 4 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Commerce only in the town. 
 
 
There are 4 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.There are 4 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College - Law in the town.The nearest private Degree College - Law is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (18 km) .
 
There are 2 government Medical Colleges in the town.The nearest private Medical College is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kunnamangalam (13 km) .
There are 2 government Polytechnics in the town.There are 2 private Polytechnics in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Special School for Disableds in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 2 government Orphanage Homes in the town.There are 8 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 8 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.There are 8 private Old Age Homes in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Cinema Theatres in the town.There are 6 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 74 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 45 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kozhikode (M Corp. + OG) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Food products,Plastic products,Furniture


== Market and Banking ==
There are 79 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 30 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 24 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 11 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 3 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


