{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628266
|native_name=Krishnapuram (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Karthikappally
|subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Alappuzha]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Karthikappally]]
|Nearest city=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=10.64
|elevation_m=
|population_total=26705
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2509
|population_blank1=12466
|population_blank2=14239
|female_per_1000_male=1142
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Krishnapuram (CT) (628266) ==

Krishnapuram (CT) is a town in the [[Karthikappally]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 10.64 sq. km. and harbouring 6834 households with total population of 26705 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 41 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 105 km. Male population is 12466 and female population is 14239. Scheduled Caste population is 2802 and Scheduled Tribes population is 124. Census Location Code of the town is 628266<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 41 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 95 km. Railway station is at Kayamkulam at a distance of 3 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1890 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 38
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 27


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 22649
* Literate male population: 10706 (85.88%)
* Literate female population: 11943 (83.88%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 630 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kayamkulam (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 4 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 3 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 3 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 3 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Puthuppally (3 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kayamkulam (5 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (95 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (11 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (38 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Chengannur (4 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kayamkulam (4 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kayamkulam (4 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kayamkulam (7 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kayamkulam (15 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kayamkulam (7 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kayamkulam (7 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kayamkulam (6 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kayamkulam (5 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Haripad (6 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kayamkulam (4 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Krishnapuram (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rubber products,Coir


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Karthikappally]]
[[Categories:Alappuzha district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


