{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kudlu (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kasaragod
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kasaragod
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=10.87
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=26235
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2413
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1068
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=82.73%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627133
| footnotes=
}}

== Kudlu (CT) (627133) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kudlu (CT) is a town in the [[Kasaragod]] taluka of [[Kasaragod]] district with an area of 10.87 sq. km. and harbouring 5545 households with total population of 26235 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kasaragod]] is at a distance of 5 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 636 km. Male population is 12682 and female population is 13553. Scheduled Caste population is 1040 and Scheduled Tribes population is 77. Census Location Code of the town is 627133<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 50 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 198 km. Railway station is at Kasaragod at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3401 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 21705 (82.73%)
* Literate male population: 10701 (84.38%)
* Literate female population: 11004 (81.19%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 55 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kasaragod (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 4 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 4 km .
There are 5 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 4 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
There are 2 Other medical amenitiess in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 9 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kasaragod (5 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (24 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (24 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Mangalore (50 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Puthur  (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 government Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Working Women's Hostel in the town.There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Chittarikkal (40 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kasaragod (12 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kasaragod (6 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Kasaragod (6 km) .
There are 3 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kudlu (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Copra


== Market and Banking ==


There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kasaragod tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kasaragod district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


