{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kulasekharapuram (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kollam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Karunagappally
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=9.5
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=26907
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2832
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1120
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=83.27%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628364
| footnotes=
}}

== Kulasekharapuram (CT) (628364) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kulasekharapuram (CT) is a town in the [[Karunagappally]] taluka of [[Kollam]] district with an area of 9.5 sq. km. and harbouring 6727 households with total population of 26907 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kollam]] is at a distance of 28 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 98 km. Male population is 12691 and female population is 14216. Scheduled Caste population is 1622 and Scheduled Tribes population is 52. Census Location Code of the town is 628364<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 28 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 98 km. Railway station is at Karunagappally at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2790 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 30


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 22406 (83.27%)
* Literate male population: 10760 (84.78%)
* Literate female population: 11646 (81.92%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 225 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Karunagappally (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 14 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 5 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
There is 1 private Degree College of Science only in the town. 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (98 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (98 km) .
 
There is 1 private Medical College in the town.The nearest private Medical College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kallelibhagom (4 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Karunagappally (6 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Karunagappally (6 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Chavara  (18 km) .
There is 1 private other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kollam (28 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kollam (28 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kulasekharapuram (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Pomsy food products,Coir,Copra


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Karunagappally tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kollam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


