{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628540
|native_name=Kulathummal (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Neyyattinkara
|subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thiruvananthapuram]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Neyyattinkara]]
|Nearest city=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=22.54
|elevation_m=
|population_total=40448
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1794
|population_blank1=19838
|population_blank2=20610
|female_per_1000_male=1038
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kulathummal (CT) (628540) ==

Kulathummal (CT) is a town in the [[Neyyattinkara]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 22.54 sq. km. and harbouring 10452 households with total population of 40448 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 33 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 33 km. Male population is 19838 and female population is 20610. Scheduled Caste population is 4353 and Scheduled Tribes population is 147. Census Location Code of the town is 628540<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 33 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 33 km. Railway station is at Thiruvananthapuram at a distance of 33 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1828 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 33811
* Literate male population: 16871 (85.04%)
* Literate female population: 16940 (82.19%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 500 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Neyyattinkara (13 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 18 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 15 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 1 km .
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There are 3 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 15 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 15 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 11 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kanjiramkulam (14 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (33 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (33 km) .
 
There is 1 private Medical College in the town.The nearest private Medical College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thiruvananthapuram (5 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thiruvananthapuram (5 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Perumpazhuthoor (10 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Thiruvananthapuram (14 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thiruvananthapuram (18 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.There are 4 private Old Age Homes in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 6 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 6 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kulathummal (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Printed circuit,Rubber chapal


== Market and Banking ==
There are 6 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 4 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There are 3 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Neyyattinkara]]
[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


