{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627767
|native_name=Kumaranellur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Talappilly
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Talappilly]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=5.24
|elevation_m=
|population_total=7553
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1441
|population_blank1=3627
|population_blank2=3926
|female_per_1000_male=1082
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kumaranellur (CT) (627767) ==

Kumaranellur (CT) is a town in the [[Talappilly]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 5.24 sq. km. and harbouring 1762 households with total population of 7553 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 20 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 342 km. Male population is 3627 and female population is 3926. Scheduled Caste population is 1270 and Scheduled Tribes population is 3. Census Location Code of the town is 627767<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 20 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 110 km. Railway station is at Wadakkanchery at a distance of 3 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 6198
* Literate male population: 3049 (84.06%)
* Literate female population: 3149 (80.21%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 2 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 18 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 12 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Middle School is at Wadakkanchery (1 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Wadakkanchery (1 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Wadakkanchery (1 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (25 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (30 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (20 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (20 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Peringandur (20 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Thrissur (20 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Kottappuram (1 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kumaranellur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice,Copra


== Market and Banking ==

There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Talappilly]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


