{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628257
|native_name=Kumarapuram (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Karthikappally
|subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Alappuzha]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Karthikappally]]
|Nearest city=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=14.39
|elevation_m=
|population_total=26943
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1872
|population_blank1=12397
|population_blank2=14546
|female_per_1000_male=1173
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kumarapuram (CT) (628257) ==

Kumarapuram (CT) is a town in the [[Karthikappally]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 14.39 sq. km. and harbouring 7020 households with total population of 26943 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 32 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 140 km. Male population is 12397 and female population is 14546. Scheduled Caste population is 1182 and Scheduled Tribes population is 149. Census Location Code of the town is 628257<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 32 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 95 km. Railway station is at Haripad at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1894 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 27


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 23386
* Literate male population: 10902 (87.94%)
* Literate female population: 12484 (85.82%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 68 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kayamkulam (20 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 18 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 13 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 15 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 33 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 33 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 12 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kayamkulam  (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (95 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (26 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (30 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Chengannur (27 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Alappuzha (32 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kayamkulam (21 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Alappuzha (32 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Thiruvalla (25 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Haripad (3 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Haripad (3 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kayamkulam (8 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Cheppad (6 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Haripad (2 km) .
There are 6 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kumarapuram (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 5 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Karthikappally]]
[[Categories:Alappuzha district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


