{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kumbalangy (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kochi
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=21.14
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=42367
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2004
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1020
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=87.17%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628001
| footnotes=
}}

== Kumbalangy (CT) (628001) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kumbalangy (CT) is a town in the [[Kochi]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 21.14 sq. km. and harbouring 10034 households with total population of 42367 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 25 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 275 km. Male population is 20968 and female population is 21399. Scheduled Caste population is 2550 and Scheduled Tribes population is 41. Census Location Code of the town is 628001<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 10 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 10 km. Railway station is at Aroor at a distance of 1 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3656 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 36930 (87.17%)
* Literate male population: 18498 (88.22%)
* Literate female population: 18432 (86.13%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 200 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kochi (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 19 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 9 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 15 km .
There are 10 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.

There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 5 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kochi (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (10 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kalamassery (4 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kalamassery (4 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalamassery (4 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Kochi (10 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kochi (10 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kochi (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kochi (10 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kochi (10 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kochi (10 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kochi (10 km) .
There are 6 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kumbalangy (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 4 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kochi tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernakulam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


