{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627220
|native_name=Kunhimangalam (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kannur
|subdivision_name2=Kannur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kannur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kannur]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=15.34
|elevation_m=
|population_total=18965
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1236
|population_blank1=8438
|population_blank2=10527
|female_per_1000_male=1247
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kunhimangalam (CT) (627220) ==

Kunhimangalam (CT) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 15.34 sq. km. and harbouring 4533 households with total population of 18965 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 30 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 534 km. Male population is 8438 and female population is 10527. Scheduled Caste population is 1103 and Scheduled Tribes population is 25. Census Location Code of the town is 627220<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 40 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 124 km. Railway station is at Ezhimala at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2990 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 16045
* Literate male population: 7258 (86.02%)
* Literate female population: 8787 (83.47%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kannur (30 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 20 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 10 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 4 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 2 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 2 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 22 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (124 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (30 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kadannappalli  (8 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (10 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Korom (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Payyannur (5 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Cheruthazham (6 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Cherukunnu  (16 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Alapadamba (14 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kadannappalli (8 km) .
There is 1 private stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 7 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kunhimangalam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom,Coir  products,Bell metal


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Kannur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


