{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kunjathur (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kasaragod
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kasaragod
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=12.65
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=13633
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1077
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Mangalore(m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1026
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=79.12%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627121
| footnotes=
}}

== Kunjathur (CT) (627121) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kunjathur (CT) is a town in the [[Kasaragod]] taluka of [[Kasaragod]] district with an area of 12.65 sq. km. and harbouring 2634 households with total population of 13633 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kasaragod]] is at a distance of 35 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 660 km. Male population is 6729 and female population is 6904. Scheduled Caste population is 197 and Scheduled Tribes population is 260. Census Location Code of the town is 627121<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Mangalore(m corp. + og) at a distance of 15 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 205 km. Railway station is at Manjeshwar at a distance of 3 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3401 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 10786 (79.12%)
* Literate male population: 5577 (82.88%)
* Literate female population: 5209 (75.45%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 300 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kasaragod (35 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 3 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 32 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 3 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 37 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 37 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Hosabettu (1 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Manjeshwar (3 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (36 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (36 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Mangalore (15 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kasaragod (35 km) .
There is 1 government Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Periya (20 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kasaragod (35 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kasaragod (35 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kasaragod (35 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kasaragod (35 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Chittarikkal (55 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Hosabettu (1 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kasaragod  (35 km) .
There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Public Library is at Hosabettu (3 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kunjathur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Plywood,Ice cream


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kasaragod tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kasaragod district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


