{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627426
|native_name=Kunnamangalam (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kozhikode
|subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kozhikode]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kozhikode]]
|Nearest city=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=24.41
|elevation_m=
|population_total=47396
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1941
|population_blank1=23971
|population_blank2=23425
|female_per_1000_male=977
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kunnamangalam (CT) (627426) ==

Kunnamangalam (CT) is a town in the [[Kozhikode]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 24.41 sq. km. and harbouring 10501 households with total population of 47396 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 10 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 440 km. Male population is 23971 and female population is 23425. Scheduled Caste population is 4551 and Scheduled Tribes population is 118. Census Location Code of the town is 627426<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 10 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 10 km. Railway station is at Kozhikode at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2705 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 41128
* Literate male population: 21141 (88.19%)
* Literate female population: 19987 (85.32%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kozhikode (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 15 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 8 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Nellikode (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (11 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (10 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Chathamangalam (5 km) .
There is 1 government Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Chevayoor (4 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Nagaram (10 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Nellikode (6 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kozhikode (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (6 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kozhikode (5 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kunnamangalam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Match sticks,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Kozhikode district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


