{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kunnathunad (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kunnathunad
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=17.21
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=22881
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1329
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1014
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=84.06%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627962
| footnotes=
}}

== Kunnathunad (CT) (627962) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kunnathunad (CT) is a town in the [[Kunnathunad]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 17.21 sq. km. and harbouring 5377 households with total population of 22881 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 8 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 250 km. Male population is 11360 and female population is 11521. Scheduled Caste population is 4108 and Scheduled Tribes population is 61. Census Location Code of the town is 627962<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 15 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 15 km. Railway station is at Ernakulam at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3656 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 30
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 19233 (84.06%)
* Literate male population: 9773 (86.03%)
* Literate female population: 9460 (82.11%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 40 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Perumbavoor (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 16 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Puthencruz  (15 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (15 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalady (11 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (15 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kadayiruppu (14 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kochi (14 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalamassery (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Angamaly (14 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Perumbavoor (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Kakkanad (8 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Aluva (14 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Aluva (10 km) .
There are 5 government Cinema Theatres in the town.There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kunnathunad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rubber products


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kunnathunad tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernakulam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


