{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kunnamkulam (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Talappilly
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=34.18
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=54071
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1581
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1129
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803277
| footnotes=
}}

== Kunnamkulam (M) (803277) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kunnamkulam (M) is a town in the [[Talappilly]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 34.18 sq. km. and harbouring 13156 households with total population of 54071 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 25 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 327 km. Male population is 25392 and female population is 28679. Scheduled Caste population is 6419 and Scheduled Tribes population is 77. Census Location Code of the town is 803277<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (Population 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 25 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 105 km. Railway station is at Guruvayoor at a distance of 6 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3251.15 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 6500 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There are 2 Allopathic hospital facilitys in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 15 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 15 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 2 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
There are 2 Other medical amenitiess in the town.
There are 33 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 10 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 16 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 9 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 9 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 7 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (25 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (35 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (25 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (23 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thrissur (23 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Special School for Disableds in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (25 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kunnamkulam (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Iron products,Books ,Toys


== Market and Banking ==
There are 7 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 4 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Talappilly tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


