{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628277
|native_name=Kurattissery (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Chengannur
|subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Alappuzha]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Chengannur]]
|Nearest city=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=9.96
|elevation_m=
|population_total=11849
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1189
|population_blank1=5562
|population_blank2=6287
|female_per_1000_male=1130
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kurattissery (CT) (628277) ==

Kurattissery (CT) is a town in the [[Chengannur]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 9.96 sq. km. and harbouring 3002 households with total population of 11849 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 53 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 129 km. Male population is 5562 and female population is 6287. Scheduled Caste population is 2039 and Scheduled Tribes population is 16. Census Location Code of the town is 628277<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 53 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 95 km. Railway station is at Chengannur at a distance of 11 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1936 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 10373
* Literate male population: 4891 (87.94%)
* Literate female population: 5482 (87.2%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 525 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Chengannur (11 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 15 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 11 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
There are 6 Maternity Homes in the town.
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 11 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 11 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 24 km .
There are 10 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 10 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 7 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kadapra (3 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (95 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (32 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (11 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Chengannur (11 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Chengannur (11 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Alappuzha (42 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Chengannur (11 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Mavelikkara (42 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kayamkulam (12 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Chengannur (11 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Old Age Homes in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Chengannur  (11 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kurattissery (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Brass vessels,Aluminium vessels


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Chengannur]]
[[Categories:Alappuzha district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


