{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kureekkad (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kanayannur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=5.3
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=13348
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2518
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1066
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=88.54%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628014
| footnotes=
}}

== Kureekkad (CT) (628014) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kureekkad (CT) is a town in the [[Kanayannur]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 5.3 sq. km. and harbouring 3448 households with total population of 13348 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 15 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 235 km. Male population is 6459 and female population is 6889. Scheduled Caste population is 1460 and Scheduled Tribes population is 86. Census Location Code of the town is 628014<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 15 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 15 km. Railway station is at Kureekkad at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3110 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 11818 (88.54%)
* Literate male population: 5797 (89.75%)
* Literate female population: 6021 (87.4%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 300 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrippunithura (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 18 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 4 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 24 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 2 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Commerce in the town. 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kochi (15 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (15 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (15 km) .
 
There is 1 government Medical College in the town.The nearest private Medical College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Edakkattuvayal (8 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thiruvankulam (7 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thirkkakkara (2 km) .
 
There are 2 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kochi (6 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kochi (2 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kochi (4 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kureekkad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Paint,Electronic equipments,Plastic products


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kanayannur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernakulam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


