{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627425
|native_name=Kuruvattur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kozhikode
|subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kozhikode]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kozhikode]]
|Nearest city=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=17.98
|elevation_m=
|population_total=34241
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1904
|population_blank1=16451
|population_blank2=17790
|female_per_1000_male=1081
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kuruvattur (CT) (627425) ==

Kuruvattur (CT) is a town in the [[Kozhikode]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 17.98 sq. km. and harbouring 8151 households with total population of 34241 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 8 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 423 km. Male population is 16451 and female population is 17790. Scheduled Caste population is 3129 and Scheduled Tribes population is 27. Census Location Code of the town is 627425<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 8 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 8 km. Railway station is at Kozhikode at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2705 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 29907
* Literate male population: 14493 (88.1%)
* Literate female population: 15414 (86.64%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 725 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kozhikode (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 4 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 4 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 8 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kozhikode (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (12 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (8 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Mukkom (15 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kunnamangalam (6 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Kozhikode (8 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kozhikode (8 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kozhikode (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 2 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kozhikode (8 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (6 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kozhikode (8 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kuruvattur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil,Hollow bricks


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Kozhikode district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


