{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627211
|native_name=Kurumathur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Taliparamba
|subdivision_name2=Kannur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kannur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Taliparamba]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=26.26
|elevation_m=
|population_total=18641
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=709
|population_blank1=8723
|population_blank2=9918
|female_per_1000_male=1136
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Kurumathur (CT) (627211) ==

Kurumathur (CT) is a town in the [[Taliparamba]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 26.26 sq. km. and harbouring 4117 households with total population of 18641 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 30 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 545 km. Male population is 8723 and female population is 9918. Scheduled Caste population is 641 and Scheduled Tribes population is 36. Census Location Code of the town is 627211<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 55 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 100 km. Railway station is at Kannur at a distance of 30 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2990 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 15181
* Literate male population: 7275 (83.4%)
* Literate female population: 7906 (79.71%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is  kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Taliparamba (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 8 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 10 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Taliparamba (10 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kuttiattoor  (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (20 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Pariyaram (18 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Taliparamba  (10 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Taliparamba  (10 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada  (30 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Taliparamba (10 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Taliparamba (10 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Cherukunnu  (18 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Taliparamba (10 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Taliparamba (10 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Pattuvam (10 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Morazha (20 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Taliparamba (10 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Taliparamba (10 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kurumathur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice,Coconut oil,Rubber products


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Taliparamba]]
[[Categories:Kannur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


