{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kuttippuram (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Malappuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Tirur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=16.42
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=25750
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1568
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1124
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=81.99%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627537
| footnotes=
}}

== Kuttippuram (CT) (627537) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kuttippuram (CT) is a town in the [[Tirur]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 16.42 sq. km. and harbouring 4901 households with total population of 25750 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 40 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 381 km. Male population is 12120 and female population is 13630. Scheduled Caste population is 2183 and Scheduled Tribes population is 78. Census Location Code of the town is 627537<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 40 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 90 km. Railway station is at Kuttippuram at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2769 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 21112 (81.99%)
* Literate male population: 10016 (82.64%)
* Literate female population: 11096 (81.41%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 55 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Tirur (20 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 18 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 11 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 1 km .
There are 2 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 20 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 23 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
There is 1 Mobile health clinic in the town.
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There are 5 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Tirur (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (60 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (55 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (90 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Tavanur (2 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Tavanur (2 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Tirur (20 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Tirur (20 km) .
There are 2 government other educational facilitiess in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
 
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Tavanur (12 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Tavanur (5 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kuttippuram (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Hollow bricks,Electronic chock


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 5 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Tirur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Malappuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


