{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kuttikkattoor (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kozhikode
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=10.62
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=25929
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2441
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1037
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=85.14%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627431
| footnotes=
}}

== Kuttikkattoor (CT) (627431) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kuttikkattoor (CT) is a town in the [[Kozhikode]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 10.62 sq. km. and harbouring 5843 households with total population of 25929 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 10 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 400 km. Male population is 12724 and female population is 13205. Scheduled Caste population is 1585 and Scheduled Tribes population is 21. Census Location Code of the town is 627431<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 10 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 10 km. Railway station is at Kozhikode at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2705 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 30
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 20


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 22077 (85.14%)
* Literate male population: 10968 (86.2%)
* Literate female population: 11109 (84.13%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 325 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kozhikode (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 12 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 4 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 5 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 15 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 15 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Nellikode (3 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Nellikode (3 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (10 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Nellikode (3 km) .
There is 1 private Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kozhikode (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Chevayoor (6 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (18 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kozhikode (5 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Mavoor (8 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Mavoor (8 km) .
There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kuttikkattoor (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Steel


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.


There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


