{{Infobox settlement
| name=Kuttiattoor (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Taliparamba
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=20.9
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=13244
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=633
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1111
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=84.54%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627213
| footnotes=
}}

== Kuttiattoor (CT) (627213) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Kuttiattoor (CT) is a town in the [[Taliparamba]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 20.9 sq. km. and harbouring 3017 households with total population of 13244 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 20 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 535 km. Male population is 6272 and female population is 6972. Scheduled Caste population is 681 and Scheduled Tribes population is 6. Census Location Code of the town is 627213<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 110 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 110 km. Railway station is at Kannur at a distance of 20 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2980 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 11196 (84.54%)
* Literate male population: 5419 (86.4%)
* Literate female population: 5777 (82.86%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 150 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Taliparamba (25 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 22 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 18 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 22 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 22 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 15 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (18 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (18 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Pariyaram (36 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Taliparamba  (25 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada  (30 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Mayyil (5 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Taliparamba (25 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Cherukunnu  (12 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Taliparamba (25 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Sreekandapuram (8 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Kuttiattoor (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Granite


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Taliparamba tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


