{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627926
|native_name=Madayikonam (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Mukundapuram
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Mukundapuram]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=9.91
|elevation_m=
|population_total=14155
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1428
|population_blank1=6622
|population_blank2=7533
|female_per_1000_male=1137
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Madayikonam (CT) (627926) ==

Madayikonam (CT) is a town in the [[Mukundapuram]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 9.91 sq. km. and harbouring 3575 households with total population of 14155 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 19 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 286 km. Male population is 6622 and female population is 7533. Scheduled Caste population is 1620 and Scheduled Tribes population is 22. Census Location Code of the town is 627926<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 19 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 44 km. Railway station is at Irinjalakuda at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 12467
* Literate male population: 5825 (87.96%)
* Literate female population: 6642 (88.17%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Irinjalakuda (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 11 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 16 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 3 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 3 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 3 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 19 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Kattur (19 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Irinjalakuda (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (19 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (24 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (19 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (19 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (19 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kallettumkara (10 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Irinjalakuda (10 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Irinjalakuda (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (19 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Irinjalakuda (10 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Madayikonam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Clay tiles,Wooden furniture,Concrete items


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Mukundapuram]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


