{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627132
|native_name=Madhur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kasaragod
|subdivision_name2=Kasaragod
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kasaragod]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kasaragod]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=10.82
|elevation_m=
|population_total=12685
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1172
|population_blank1=6218
|population_blank2=6467
|female_per_1000_male=1040
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Madhur (CT) (627132) ==

Madhur (CT) is a town in the [[Kasaragod]] taluka of [[Kasaragod]] district with an area of 10.82 sq. km. and harbouring 2526 households with total population of 12685 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kasaragod]] is at a distance of 6 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 600 km. Male population is 6218 and female population is 6467. Scheduled Caste population is 808 and Scheduled Tribes population is 31. Census Location Code of the town is 627132<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 50 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 190 km. Railway station is at Kasaragod at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3401 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 9862
* Literate male population: 4950 (79.61%)
* Literate female population: 4912 (75.95%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 250 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kasaragod (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 7 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 7 km .
There are 5 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 4 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 7 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 7 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 4 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kasaragod (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (26 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (26 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Mangalore (50 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kasaragod (6 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kasaragod (7 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kudlu (28 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kasaragod (7 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kasaragod (4 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Puthur  (6 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kasaragod (4 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kasaragod (4 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Chittarikkal (40 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kasaragod (4 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kasaragod (7 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Kasaragod (7 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Kasaragod (7 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Madhur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom,Furniture,Soft drinks


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Kasaragod district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


