{{Infobox settlement
| name=Malappuram (M + OG)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Malappuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Ernad
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=58.2
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=101386
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1742
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1070
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=26.81%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803269
| footnotes=
}}

== Malappuram (M + OG) (803269) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Malappuram (M + OG) is a town in the [[Ernad]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 58.2 sq. km. and harbouring 19785 households with total population of 101386 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 0 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 379 km. Male population is 48957 and female population is 52429. Scheduled Caste population is 5323 and Scheduled Tribes population is 77. Census Location Code of the town is 803269<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class I (Population > 1,00,000).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 0 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 50 km. Railway station is at Angadippuram at a distance of 20 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2216 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 26


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 27178 (26.81%)
* Literate male population: 13092 (26.74%)
* Literate female population: 14086 (26.87%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1000 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There are 2 Alternative Medicine hospitals in the town.
There are 5 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 65 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 15 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 6 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 19 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 8 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 23 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 11 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 7 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts only in the town.There are 2 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.There are 2 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (18 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (24 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (50 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Perinthalmanna (25 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Angadippuram (19 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 5 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Public Librarys in the town.There are 3 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Malappuram (M + OG) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Textiles,Wooden and metal products,Processed food


== Market and Banking ==
There are 16 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 11 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 10 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 11 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernad tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Malappuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


