{{Infobox settlement
| name=Malayinkeezhu (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Neyyattinkara
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=16.38
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=37350
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2280
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1046
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=86.48%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628541
| footnotes=
}}

== Malayinkeezhu (CT) (628541) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Malayinkeezhu (CT) is a town in the [[Neyyattinkara]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 16.38 sq. km. and harbouring 9684 households with total population of 37350 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 15 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 15 km. Male population is 18250 and female population is 19100. Scheduled Caste population is 3807 and Scheduled Tribes population is 118. Census Location Code of the town is 628541<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 15 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 15 km. Railway station is at Thiruvananthapuram at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1820 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 26


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 32302 (86.48%)
* Literate male population: 16016 (87.76%)
* Literate female population: 16286 (85.27%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 780 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kattakkada (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 13 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 13 km .
There are 6 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 5 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 15 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 8 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 5 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kanjiramkulam (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
 
There are 3 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thiruvananthapuram (11 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thiruvananthapuram (5 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Thiruvananthapuarm (10 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 8 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 8 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Malayinkeezhu (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Primer,Grees


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Neyyattinkara tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thiruvananthapuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


