{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627848
|native_name=Manalur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Thrissur
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Thrissur]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=10.99
|elevation_m=
|population_total=17757
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1615
|population_blank1=8442
|population_blank2=9315
|female_per_1000_male=1103
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Manalur (CT) (627848) ==

Manalur (CT) is a town in the [[Thrissur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 10.99 sq. km. and harbouring 4316 households with total population of 17757 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 280 km. Male population is 8442 and female population is 9315. Scheduled Caste population is 2359 and Scheduled Tribes population is 6. Census Location Code of the town is 627848<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 12 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 92 km. Railway station is at Thrissur at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2764 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 15600
* Literate male population: 7480 (88.6%)
* Literate female population: 8120 (87.17%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrissur (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 3 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (28 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (12 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Nadathara (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Manakkody (10 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (11 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (12 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Manalur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil,Rice and chilly powder,Coir


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


