{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627929
|native_name=Manavalassery (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Mukundapuram
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Mukundapuram]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=7
|elevation_m=
|population_total=7364
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1052
|population_blank1=3355
|population_blank2=4009
|female_per_1000_male=1194
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Manavalassery (CT) (627929) ==

Manavalassery (CT) is a town in the [[Mukundapuram]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 7 sq. km. and harbouring 1919 households with total population of 7364 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 16 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 250 km. Male population is 3355 and female population is 4009. Scheduled Caste population is 1171 and Scheduled Tribes population is 2. Census Location Code of the town is 627929<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 16 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 60 km. Railway station is at Irinjalakuda at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 26


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 4101
* Literate male population: 1862 (55.5%)
* Literate female population: 2239 (55.85%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 1 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 1 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 1 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 1 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 23 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 23 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 23 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 1 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 1 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.

There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 15 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (16 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (24 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (16 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Mala (18 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kallettumkara (8 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (16 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Manavalassery (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Toilet soap,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Mukundapuram]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


