{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627278
|native_name=Manantheri (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Thalassery
|subdivision_name2=Kannur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kannur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Thalassery]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=17.06
|elevation_m=
|population_total=14667
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=859
|population_blank1=6936
|population_blank2=7731
|female_per_1000_male=1114
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Manantheri (CT) (627278) ==

Manantheri (CT) is a town in the [[Thalassery]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 17.06 sq. km. and harbouring 3219 households with total population of 14667 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 40 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 520 km. Male population is 6936 and female population is 7731. Scheduled Caste population is 115 and Scheduled Tribes population is 959. Census Location Code of the town is 627278<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 99 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 86 km. Railway station is at Thalassery at a distance of 19 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3479 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 12222
* Literate male population: 5888 (84.89%)
* Literate female population: 6334 (81.93%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 150 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Koothuparamba (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 6 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 7 km .
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 7 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Koothuparamba (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Palayad (23 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (25 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (28 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Eranholi (19 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thottada  (22 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Koothuparamba (11 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Dharmadom (28 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Koothuparamba (18 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kandamkunnu (3 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thalassery (19 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Koothuparamba (6 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Koothuparamba (6 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Manantheri (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Housing articles


== Market and Banking ==


There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Thalassery]]
[[Categories:Kannur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


