{{Infobox settlement
| name=Manakunnam (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kanayannur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=24.86
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=39538
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1590
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1040
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=88.24%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628017
| footnotes=
}}

== Manakunnam (CT) (628017) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Manakunnam (CT) is a town in the [[Kanayannur]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 24.86 sq. km. and harbouring 9716 households with total population of 39538 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 210 km. Male population is 19375 and female population is 20163. Scheduled Caste population is 3428 and Scheduled Tribes population is 237. Census Location Code of the town is 628017<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 12 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 12 km. Railway station is at Thrippunithura at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3500 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 37
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 34889 (88.24%)
* Literate male population: 17291 (89.24%)
* Literate female population: 17598 (87.28%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 200 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kochi (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 19 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 11 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 19 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 10 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kochi (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (12 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (15 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Arakunnam (10 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kochi (12 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalamassery (17 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kochi (12 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kochi (10 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kochi (12 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Mulanthuruthy (12 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Manakunnam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kanayannur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernakulam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


