{{Infobox settlement
| name=Mangattidam (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Thalassery
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=16.38
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=18627
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1137
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1115
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=86.21%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627276
| footnotes=
}}

== Mangattidam (CT) (627276) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Mangattidam (CT) is a town in the [[Thalassery]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 16.38 sq. km. and harbouring 4169 households with total population of 18627 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 19 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 511 km. Male population is 8805 and female population is 9822. Scheduled Caste population is 267 and Scheduled Tribes population is 84. Census Location Code of the town is 627276<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 89 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 89 km. Railway station is at Thalassery at a distance of 19 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3479 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 16059 (86.21%)
* Literate male population: 7718 (87.65%)
* Literate female population: 8341 (84.92%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 95 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Koothuparamba (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 15 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 15 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 15 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 42 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 42 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 7 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 9 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Vengad (3 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Pathiriyad (3 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Koothuparamba (5 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Palayad (27 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (38 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (11 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Pathiriyad  (19 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thottada  (29 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Koothuparamba (5 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Dharmadom (24 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Koothuparamba (14 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kandamkunnu (9 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thalassery (19 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Koothuparamba (5 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Koothuparamba (5 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Koothuparamba (5 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Koothuparamba (5 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 3 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Mangattidam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==


There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thalassery tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


