{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627366
|native_name=Maniyur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Vadakara
|subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kozhikode]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Vadakara]]
|Nearest city=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=19.07
|elevation_m=
|population_total=21820
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1144
|population_blank1=10244
|population_blank2=11576
|female_per_1000_male=1130
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Maniyur (CT) (627366) ==

Maniyur (CT) is a town in the [[Vadakara]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 19.07 sq. km. and harbouring 5159 households with total population of 21820 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 50 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 475 km. Male population is 10244 and female population is 11576. Scheduled Caste population is 1213 and Scheduled Tribes population is 30. Census Location Code of the town is 627366<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 50 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 50 km. Railway station is at Vadakara at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3218 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 18529
* Literate male population: 8899 (86.87%)
* Literate female population: 9630 (83.19%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 250 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Vadakara (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 11 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 11 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 11 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 11 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 11 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 11 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 11 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 11 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 13 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Palayad (3 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Vadakara (10 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Vadakara (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (50 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (57 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (50 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kozhikode (50 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Vadakara (10 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Vadakara (10 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Palayad (5 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Vadakara (10 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Vadakara (10 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Vadakara  (5 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Vadakara (5 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Vadakara (5 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Palayad  (3 km) .
There are 7 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Maniyur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom,Copra


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Vadakara]]
[[Categories:Kozhikode district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


