{{Infobox settlement
| name=Manjeri (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Malappuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Ernad
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=53.1
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=97102
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1828
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1058
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803268
| footnotes=
}}

== Manjeri (M) (803268) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Manjeri (M) is a town in the [[Ernad]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 53.1 sq. km. and harbouring 19386 households with total population of 97102 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 13 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 415 km. Male population is 47171 and female population is 49931. Scheduled Caste population is 8257 and Scheduled Tribes population is 264. Census Location Code of the town is 803268<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (Population 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 13 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 50 km. Railway station is at Angadippuram at a distance of 22 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2991 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 10000 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Malappuram (13 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There are 2 Alternative Medicine hospitals in the town.
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 40 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 12 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 31 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 10 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 12 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 10 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 11 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.There are 3 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (26 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (20 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (50 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Pattikkad (10 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kozhikode (48 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Angadippuram (22 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Malappuram (5 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Ponnani (48 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Malappuram (5 km) .
There are 6 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 7 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Manjeri (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Curry powder,Bakery products,Rice powder


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 14 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 4 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernad tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Malappuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


