{{Infobox settlement
| name=Manjeshwar (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kasaragod
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kasaragod
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=3.98
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=8742
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2196
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Mangalore(m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1092
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=80.7%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627122
| footnotes=
}}

== Manjeshwar (CT) (627122) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Manjeshwar (CT) is a town in the [[Kasaragod]] taluka of [[Kasaragod]] district with an area of 3.98 sq. km. and harbouring 1681 households with total population of 8742 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kasaragod]] is at a distance of 29 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 660 km. Male population is 4178 and female population is 4564. Scheduled Caste population is 399 and Scheduled Tribes population is 28. Census Location Code of the town is 627122<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (Population 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Mangalore(m corp. + og) at a distance of 20 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 204 km. Railway station is at Manjeshwar at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3401 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 7055 (80.7%)
* Literate male population: 3513 (84.08%)
* Literate female population: 3542 (77.61%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 200 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kasaragod (29 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 28 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 1 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 1 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 1 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 1 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 32 km .
There are 2 Other medical amenitiess in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (39 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (39 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Mangalore (20 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kasaragod (29 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Mangalore (20 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Mangalore (20 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kasaragod (29 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kasaragod (29 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kasaragod (29 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kunjathur (1 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kasaragod (29 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Chittarikkal (55 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Hosabettu (5 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kasaragod  (29 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Public Library is at Hosabettu (3 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Manjeshwar (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Match sticks,Electric post


== Market and Banking ==
There are 4 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kasaragod tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kasaragod district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


