{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627627
|native_name=Mannarkad-I (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Mannarkad
|subdivision_name2=Palakkad
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Palakkad]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Mannarkad]]
|Nearest city=[[Palakkad (m)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=33.01
|elevation_m=
|population_total=34839
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1055
|population_blank1=16658
|population_blank2=18181
|female_per_1000_male=1091
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Mannarkad-I (CT) (627627) ==

Mannarkad-I (CT) is a town in the [[Mannarkad]] taluka of [[Palakkad]] district with an area of 33.01 sq. km. and harbouring 7371 households with total population of 34839 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Palakkad]] is at a distance of 40 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 406 km. Male population is 16658 and female population is 18181. Scheduled Caste population is 3147 and Scheduled Tribes population is 298. Census Location Code of the town is 627627<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Palakkad (m) at a distance of 40 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Coimbatore(m corp. )  at a distance of 60 km. Railway station is at Palakkad at a distance of 40 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2500 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 40
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 28303
* Literate male population: 13788 (82.77%)
* Literate female population: 14515 (79.84%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 500 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 40 km .
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 40 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 40 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 40 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 40 km .
There are 14 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 26 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 5 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 8 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.There are 5 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (28 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (49 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (28 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Shoranur (40 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Hemambikanagar  (40 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Vaniyamkulam- ii  (35 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Thirumittacode -ii  (10 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Palakkad  (3 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 4 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Ottappalam (40 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Palakkad (40 km) .
There are 4 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Palakkad  (40 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Mannarkad-I (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There are 6 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Palakkad]]
[[Categories:Mannarkad]]
[[Categories:Palakkad district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


