{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628276
|native_name=Mannar (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Chengannur
|subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Alappuzha]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Chengannur]]
|Nearest city=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=8
|elevation_m=
|population_total=17067
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2133
|population_blank1=7869
|population_blank2=9198
|female_per_1000_male=1168
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Mannar (CT) (628276) ==

Mannar (CT) is a town in the [[Chengannur]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 8 sq. km. and harbouring 4564 households with total population of 17067 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 50 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 127 km. Male population is 7869 and female population is 9198. Scheduled Caste population is 1691 and Scheduled Tribes population is 37. Census Location Code of the town is 628276<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 50 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 98 km. Railway station is at Chengannur at a distance of 11 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1936 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 15120
* Literate male population: 7032 (89.36%)
* Literate female population: 8088 (87.93%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 525 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Chengannur (11 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 12 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 18 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 2 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 2 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 22 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kadapra (2 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (98 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (34 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (50 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Chengannur (11 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Chengannur (11 km) .
There is 1 private Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Mavelikkara (18 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kayamkulam (16 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Chengannur (50 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Chengannur (12 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Chengannur  (8 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Mavelikkara (11 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Mannar (1 km) .
There are 3 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Mannar (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Alumnium products,Wooden products,Brass vessels


== Market and Banking ==


There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Chengannur]]
[[Categories:Alappuzha district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


