{{Infobox settlement
| name=Mannanchery (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Ambalappuzha
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=26.52
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=32139
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1211
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1060
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=85.06%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628232
| footnotes=
}}

== Mannanchery (CT) (628232) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Mannanchery (CT) is a town in the [[Ambalappuzha]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 26.52 sq. km. and harbouring 7637 households with total population of 32139 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 8 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 160 km. Male population is 15599 and female population is 16540. Scheduled Caste population is 2143 and Scheduled Tribes population is 68. Census Location Code of the town is 628232<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 8 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 55 km. Railway station is at Kalavoor at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1936 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 27336 (85.06%)
* Literate male population: 13534 (86.76%)
* Literate female population: 13802 (83.45%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Alappuzha (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 13 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 14 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There are 4 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 15 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 13 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 10 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Alappuzha (8 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Alappuzha (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (55 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (28 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (8 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Alappuzha  (8 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Alappuzha (8 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Alappuzha (8 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Alappuzha  (8 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Alappuzha  (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 3 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Alappuzha (8 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Alappuzha (8 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Alappuzha (8 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Alappuzha (8 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 3 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Mannanchery (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir,Coconut oil,Rice


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ambalappuzha tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Alappuzha district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


