{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627958
|native_name=Marampilly(CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kunnathunad
|subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Ernakulam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kunnathunad]]
|Nearest city=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=9.24
|elevation_m=
|population_total=23272
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2518
|population_blank1=11662
|population_blank2=11610
|female_per_1000_male=995
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Marampilly(CT) (627958) ==

Marampilly(CT) is a town in the [[Kunnathunad]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 9.24 sq. km. and harbouring 5368 households with total population of 23272 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 20 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 234 km. Male population is 11662 and female population is 11610. Scheduled Caste population is 1235 and Scheduled Tribes population is 76. Census Location Code of the town is 627958<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 28 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 28 km. Railway station is at Aluva at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3656 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 30
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 18821
* Literate male population: 9660 (82.83%)
* Literate female population: 9161 (78.91%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Aluva (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 7 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 7 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 7 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 7 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
There are 2 Other medical amenitiess in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (28 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalady (5 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kalamassery (17 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kalamassery (17 km) .
There is 1 government Management Institute in the town.There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Koovappady (6 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Perumbavoor (7 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Aluva (8 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Perumbavoor (6 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Perumbavoor (7 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Perumbavoor (7 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Perumbavoor (7 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Aluva (25 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Marampilly(CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Plywood,Clay bricks,Lab equipments


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Kunnathunad]]
[[Categories:Ernakulam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


