{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627652
|native_name=Marutharode (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Palakkad
|subdivision_name2=Palakkad
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Palakkad]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Palakkad]]
|Nearest city=[[Palakkad (m)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=9.52
|elevation_m=
|population_total=24963
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2622
|population_blank1=12304
|population_blank2=12659
|female_per_1000_male=1028
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Marutharode (CT) (627652) ==

Marutharode (CT) is a town in the [[Palakkad]] taluka of [[Palakkad]] district with an area of 9.52 sq. km. and harbouring 6040 households with total population of 24963 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Palakkad]] is at a distance of 5 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 356 km. Male population is 12304 and female population is 12659. Scheduled Caste population is 3078 and Scheduled Tribes population is 110. Census Location Code of the town is 627652<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Palakkad (m) at a distance of 5 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Coimbatore(m corp. )  at a distance of 55 km. Railway station is at Palakkad at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2380 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 38
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 20333
* Literate male population: 10400 (84.53%)
* Literate female population: 9933 (78.47%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 525 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Palakkad (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 12 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 4 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 6 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (36 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (35 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (36 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Akathethara (15 km) .
There is 1 government Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Vaniyamkulam- ii  (7 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Palakkad (12 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Palakkad  (9 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 government Orphanage Home in the town.There are 2 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Old Age Homes in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Public Library is at Pudussery central  (4 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Marutharode (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Bpl telecom, ice cream


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Palakkad]]
[[Categories:Palakkad]]
[[Categories:Palakkad district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


