{{Infobox settlement
| name=Mattannur (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Thalassery
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=54.32
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=47078
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=866
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1077
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803261
| footnotes=
}}

== Mattannur (M) (803261) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Mattannur (M) is a town in the [[Thalassery]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 54.32 sq. km. and harbouring 9788 households with total population of 47078 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 27 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 539 km. Male population is 22658 and female population is 24420. Scheduled Caste population is 945 and Scheduled Tribes population is 132. Census Location Code of the town is 803261<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 82 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 96 km. Railway station is at Thalassery at a distance of 21 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3526 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 570 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 13 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 27 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 5 km .
There are 5 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 27 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 27 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 27 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 13 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 13 km .
There are 12 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 9 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 12 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 5 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There are 3 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (29 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (33 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (13 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (42 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thottada  (27 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Dharmadom (10 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Koothuparamba (6 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Koothuparamba (13 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kannur (27 km) .
There is 1 private stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Mattannur (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil,Cashew nut,Rubber products


== Market and Banking ==
There are 4 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 4 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 3 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 6 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thalassery tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


