{{Infobox settlement
| name=Mattoor (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Aluva
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=9.77
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=18890
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1933
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1026
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=85.66%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627972
| footnotes=
}}

== Mattoor (CT) (627972) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Mattoor (CT) is a town in the [[Aluva]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 9.77 sq. km. and harbouring 4728 households with total population of 18890 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 28 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 258 km. Male population is 9322 and female population is 9568. Scheduled Caste population is 2404 and Scheduled Tribes population is 44. Census Location Code of the town is 627972<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 38 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 38 km. Railway station is at Angamaly at a distance of 9 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3656 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 16181 (85.66%)
* Literate male population: 8168 (87.62%)
* Literate female population: 8013 (83.75%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Perumbavoor (7 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 19 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There are 4 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 4 km .
There is 1 Mobile health clinic in the town.
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Kalady (3 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (38 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalady (3 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (11 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kochi (38 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalamassery (11 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Angamaly (10 km) .
There are 2 private Special School for Disableds in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kalady (4 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Aluva (5 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Angamaly (8 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Aluva (4 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Aluva (6 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kalady (2 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Kalady (2 km) .
The nearest private Public Library is at Kalady (2 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Mattoor (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rubber products


== Market and Banking ==


There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Aluva tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernakulam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


