{{Infobox settlement
| name=Mavelikkara (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Mavelikkara
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=12.65
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=26421
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2088
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1188
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803302
| footnotes=
}}

== Mavelikkara (M) (803302) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Mavelikkara (M) is a town in the [[Mavelikkara]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 12.65 sq. km. and harbouring 7184 households with total population of 26421 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 44 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 124 km. Male population is 12070 and female population is 14351. Scheduled Caste population is 3776 and Scheduled Tribes population is 27. Census Location Code of the town is 803302<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 44 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 97 km. Railway station is at Mavelikkara at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2624 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 30
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1140 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 12 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 3 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 3 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 3 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 20 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 7 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 48 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (97 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (34 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (36 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Chengannur (13 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Chengannur (13 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kayamkulam (12 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kayamkulam (17 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 2 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Old Age Homes in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Mavelikkara (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Copra


== Market and Banking ==
There are 9 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 6 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 15 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Towns in Mavelikkara tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Alappuzha district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


