{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627247
|native_name=Mavilayi (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kannur
|subdivision_name2=Kannur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kannur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kannur]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=8.6
|elevation_m=
|population_total=12286
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1428
|population_blank1=5593
|population_blank2=6693
|female_per_1000_male=1196
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Mavilayi (CT) (627247) ==

Mavilayi (CT) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 8.6 sq. km. and harbouring 2699 households with total population of 12286 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 15 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 521 km. Male population is 5593 and female population is 6693. Scheduled Caste population is 246 and Scheduled Tribes population is 21. Census Location Code of the town is 627247<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 79 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 104 km. Railway station is at Kannur at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2996 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 10621
* Literate male population: 4878 (87.22%)
* Literate female population: 5743 (85.81%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 400 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kannur (15 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 14 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 14 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 14 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 14 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 9 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 13 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at Mokeri (2 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Kadachira (2 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thottada (14 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (20 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (14 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (24 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thottada  (100 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Edakkad (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kannur (15 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kannur (15 km) .
There are 4 government other educational facilitiess in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kannur (15 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kannur (15 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kannur (14 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kannur (14 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Peralassery (3 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Mavilayi (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Curry powder,Beedi,Farm manure


== Market and Banking ==


There are 7 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Kannur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


