{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627429
|native_name=Mavoor (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kozhikode
|subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kozhikode]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kozhikode]]
|Nearest city=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=20.29
|elevation_m=
|population_total=29781
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1467
|population_blank1=14431
|population_blank2=15350
|female_per_1000_male=1063
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Mavoor (CT) (627429) ==

Mavoor (CT) is a town in the [[Kozhikode]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 20.29 sq. km. and harbouring 6783 households with total population of 29781 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 20 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 455 km. Male population is 14431 and female population is 15350. Scheduled Caste population is 3915 and Scheduled Tribes population is 37. Census Location Code of the town is 627429<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 20 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 20 km. Railway station is at Kozhikode at a distance of 20 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2704 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 24474
* Literate male population: 12059 (83.56%)
* Literate female population: 12415 (80.88%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kozhikode (20 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 10 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 6 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Nellikode (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (14 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (20 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Chathamangalam (7 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Nellikode (10 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Thazhekode (7 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Thazhekode (7 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Nellikode (8 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kozhikode (20 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kunnamangalam (7 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Chevayoor (16 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (15 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Mavoor (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Copra,Bricks,Rubber products


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Kozhikode district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


