{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627214
|native_name=Mayyil (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Taliparamba
|subdivision_name2=Kannur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kannur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Taliparamba]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=12.77
|elevation_m=
|population_total=12490
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=978
|population_blank1=5768
|population_blank2=6722
|female_per_1000_male=1165
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Mayyil (CT) (627214) ==

Mayyil (CT) is a town in the [[Taliparamba]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 12.77 sq. km. and harbouring 2587 households with total population of 12490 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 23 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 533 km. Male population is 5768 and female population is 6722. Scheduled Caste population is 284 and Scheduled Tribes population is 23. Census Location Code of the town is 627214<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 92 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 160 km. Railway station is at Kannur at a distance of 23 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2990 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 10131
* Literate male population: 4805 (83.3%)
* Literate female population: 5326 (79.23%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Taliparamba (26 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 11 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 25 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 23 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 15 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 25 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 10 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 25 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 25 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (17 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (17 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Pariyaram (30 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Taliparamba  (25 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Taliparamba (25 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada  (30 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Cherukunnu  (15 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Taliparamba (26 km) .
There is 1 government Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kannur (23 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Kayaralam (6 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Mayyil (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 8 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Taliparamba]]
[[Categories:Kannur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


