{{Infobox settlement
| name=Mayyanad (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kollam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kollam
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=14.77
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=40039
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2710
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1118
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=85.62%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628449
| footnotes=
}}

== Mayyanad (CT) (628449) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Mayyanad (CT) is a town in the [[Kollam]] taluka of [[Kollam]] district with an area of 14.77 sq. km. and harbouring 9732 households with total population of 40039 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kollam]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 65 km. Male population is 18901 and female population is 21138. Scheduled Caste population is 4736 and Scheduled Tribes population is 66. Census Location Code of the town is 628449<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 12 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 65 km. Railway station is at Mayyanad at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2790 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 34283 (85.62%)
* Literate male population: 16236 (85.9%)
* Literate female population: 18047 (85.38%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 168 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kollam (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 19 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 11 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 28 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kottamkara (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (65 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (65 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kulasekharapuram (45 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kollam (12 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Adichanalloor  (5 km) .
 
There are 4 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kollam (12 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kollam (12 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kollam (12 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Adichanalloor (5 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kollam (12 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kollam (12 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Mayyanad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Cashew nut


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kollam tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kollam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


