{{Infobox settlement
| name=Menhaniam (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Quilandy
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=10.99
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=15768
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1434
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1116
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=84.66%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627389
| footnotes=
}}

== Menhaniam (CT) (627389) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Menhaniam (CT) is a town in the [[Quilandy]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 10.99 sq. km. and harbouring 3783 households with total population of 15768 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 47 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 462 km. Male population is 7450 and female population is 8318. Scheduled Caste population is 1589 and Scheduled Tribes population is 65. Census Location Code of the town is 627389<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 47 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 47 km. Railway station is at Quilandy at a distance of 22 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2770 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 13349 (84.66%)
* Literate male population: 6463 (86.75%)
* Literate female population: 6886 (82.78%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 400 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Quilandy (22 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 2 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 2 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 2 km .
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 2 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 47 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 2 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 9 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Eravattur (2 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Eravattur (6 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Eravattur (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (47 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (30 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (47 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Chathamangalam (31 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Chathamangalam (25 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kozhikode (47 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kozhikode (47 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Palayad (12 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 2 government Orphanage Homes in the town.There are 2 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Working Women's Hostel in the town.There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Koothali (5 km) .
There are 3 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Menhaniam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Copra


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Towns in Quilandy tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


