{{Infobox settlement
| name=Methala (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kodungallur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=11.94
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=37505
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=3141
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1086
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=87.44%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627882
| footnotes=
}}

== Methala (CT) (627882) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Methala (CT) is a town in the [[Kodungallur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 11.94 sq. km. and harbouring 9442 households with total population of 37505 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 41 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 248 km. Male population is 17973 and female population is 19532. Scheduled Caste population is 2338 and Scheduled Tribes population is 117. Census Location Code of the town is 627882<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 41 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 39 km. Railway station is at Irinjalakuda at a distance of 16 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 32794 (87.44%)
* Literate male population: 15791 (87.86%)
* Literate female population: 17003 (87.05%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Paravur (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 6 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There are 5 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 12 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 7 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts and Sciences in the town. 
 
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (41 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (95 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (41 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Moothakunnam (7 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Nattika (33 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Annamanada (39 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Chalakudy (39 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Irinjalakuda (4 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 2 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Irinjalakuda (25 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 5 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Methala (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Thazhappaya,Electronic equipments,Hollow bricks


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kodungallur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


