{{Infobox settlement
| name=Minalur (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Talappilly
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=4.12
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=6120
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1485
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1075
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=86.32%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627781
| footnotes=
}}

== Minalur (CT) (627781) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Minalur (CT) is a town in the [[Talappilly]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 4.12 sq. km. and harbouring 1522 households with total population of 6120 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 14 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 300 km. Male population is 2949 and female population is 3171. Scheduled Caste population is 522 and Scheduled Tribes population is 13. Census Location Code of the town is 627781<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (Population 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 14 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 99 km. Railway station is at Mulamkunnathukavu at a distance of 4 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 5283 (86.32%)
* Literate male population: 2587 (87.72%)
* Literate female population: 2696 (85.02%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 35 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Wadakkanchery (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 2 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 2 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 2 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 2 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 3 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 11 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Mundathikode (6 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Wadakkanchery (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (14 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (18 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (14 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Viyyur (8 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kolazhy (8 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (14 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Wadakkanchery (8 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kunnamkulam (1 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (14 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thrissur (14 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Guruvayoor (6 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (8 km) .
The nearest government Cinema Theatre is at Thrissur (12 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Minalur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Aeroplane parts,Train parts,Match box


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Talappilly tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


