{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627545
|native_name=Moonniyur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Tirurangadi
|subdivision_name2=Malappuram
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Malappuram]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Tirurangadi]]
|Nearest city=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=22.4
|elevation_m=
|population_total=55535
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2479
|population_blank1=26727
|population_blank2=28808
|female_per_1000_male=1077
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Moonniyur (CT) (627545) ==

Moonniyur (CT) is a town in the [[Tirurangadi]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 22.4 sq. km. and harbouring 10176 households with total population of 55535 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 27 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 400 km. Male population is 26727 and female population is 28808. Scheduled Caste population is 2916 and Scheduled Tribes population is 68. Census Location Code of the town is 627545<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (population_total 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 27 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 28 km. Railway station is at Parappanangadi at a distance of 16 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1568 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 29


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 43974
* Literate male population: 21484 (80.38%)
* Literate female population: 22490 (78.07%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 670 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kozhikode (28 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 8 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 18 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 7 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 35 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 15 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 7 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Tirurangadi (14 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (45 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (4 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (28 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thenhippalam (4 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thenhippalam (4 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Vengara (12 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Vengara (12 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Malappuram (27 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Ariyallur  (8 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Ariyallur  (8 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thenhippalam (8 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Thenhippalam (8 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Ariyallur (8 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Moonniyur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Tiles


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Tirurangadi]]
[[Categories:Malappuram district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


