{{Infobox settlement
| name=Moothakunnam (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Paravur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=9.93
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=27458
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2765
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1067
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=89.42%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627985
| footnotes=
}}

== Moothakunnam (CT) (627985) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Moothakunnam (CT) is a town in the [[Paravur]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 9.93 sq. km. and harbouring 6963 households with total population of 27458 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 29 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 243 km. Male population is 13279 and female population is 14179. Scheduled Caste population is 1224 and Scheduled Tribes population is 103. Census Location Code of the town is 627985<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 29 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 29 km. Railway station is at Aluva at a distance of 24 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2810 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 24552 (89.42%)
* Literate male population: 11988 (90.28%)
* Literate female population: 12564 (88.61%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Paravur (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 11 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 16 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 8 km .
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.

There are 2 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 7 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There are 2 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (29 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (30 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (14 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Paravur (8 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalamassery (24 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Paravur (8 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kochi (10 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kochi (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Aluva (24 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Paravur (8 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Aluva (24 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Paravur (8 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Paravur (8 km) .
There are 5 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Moothakunnam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Hand loom,Coconut oil,Furniture


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Paravur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernakulam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


