{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628225
|native_name=Muhamma (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Cherthala 
|subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Alappuzha]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Cherthala ]]
|Nearest city=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=26.76
|elevation_m=
|population_total=25861
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=966
|population_blank1=12553
|population_blank2=13308
|female_per_1000_male=1060
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Muhamma (CT) (628225) ==

Muhamma (CT) is a town in the [[Cherthala ]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 26.76 sq. km. and harbouring 6446 households with total population of 25861 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 169 km. Male population is 12553 and female population is 13308. Scheduled Caste population is 1495 and Scheduled Tribes population is 127. Census Location Code of the town is 628225<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 12 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 55 km. Railway station is at Cherthala at a distance of 11 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1935.6 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 22792
* Literate male population: 11178 (89.05%)
* Literate female population: 11614 (87.27%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Cherthala (11 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 19 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 5 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 4 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 11 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 15 km .
There are 15 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 12 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Cherthala (5 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (55 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (20 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (15 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Pallippuram (28 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Cherthala (11 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Cherthala (11 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Cherthala (11 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Alappuzha  (12 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Alappuzha (8 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Cherthala (13 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Alappuzha (3 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Alappuzha (4 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Muhamma (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir,Lime shell,Sea foods


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Cherthala ]]
[[Categories:Alappuzha district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


