{{Infobox settlement
| name=Mulamthuruthy (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kanayannur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=21.48
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=25852
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1203
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1034
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=88.28%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628018
| footnotes=
}}

== Mulamthuruthy (CT) (628018) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Mulamthuruthy (CT) is a town in the [[Kanayannur]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 21.48 sq. km. and harbouring 6489 households with total population of 25852 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 10 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 225 km. Male population is 12709 and female population is 13143. Scheduled Caste population is 2918 and Scheduled Tribes population is 42. Census Location Code of the town is 628018<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 12 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 12 km. Railway station is at Mulanthuruthy at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3653 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 38
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 22822 (88.28%)
* Literate male population: 11370 (89.46%)
* Literate female population: 11452 (87.13%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1500 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrippunithura (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 2 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 2 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 22 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 6 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
There is 1 private Degree College of Science only in the town. 
There is 1 private Degree College of Commerce only in the town. 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Science in the town. 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Commerce in the town. 
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (25 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (6 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kakkanad (9 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalamassery (20 km) .
There is 1 private Vocational Training School in the town. 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kochi (16 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kochi (4 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kochi (4 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kochi (11 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kochi (4 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kochi (14 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Mulamthuruthy (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Electric  cable,Handloom


== Market and Banking ==
There are 4 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 8 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kanayannur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernakulam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


