{{Infobox settlement
| name=Munderi (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kannur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=12.29
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=21676
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1763
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1188
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=83.19%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627235
| footnotes=
}}

== Munderi (CT) (627235) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Munderi (CT) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 12.29 sq. km. and harbouring 4246 households with total population of 21676 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 15 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 525 km. Male population is 9904 and female population is 11772. Scheduled Caste population is 1030 and Scheduled Tribes population is 30. Census Location Code of the town is 627235<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 38 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 116 km. Railway station is at Kannur at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2996 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 18033 (83.19%)
* Literate male population: 8397 (84.78%)
* Literate female population: 9636 (81.86%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kannur (15 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 6 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 15 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 15 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 8 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Chirakkal (4 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Kanhirode (4 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thottada (28 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (116 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (26 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (40 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (24 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kannur (24 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Edakkad (17 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kannur (15 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kannur (15 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Pallikkunnu (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Valapattanam (15 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Puzhathi (15 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Pallikkunnu (15 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Puzhathi (15 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Munderi (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom,Leather bag,Beedi


== Market and Banking ==


There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


