{{Infobox settlement
| name=Muringur Vadakkummuri (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Mukundapuram
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=2.79
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=4981
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1785
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1183
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=89.36%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627936
| footnotes=
}}

== Muringur Vadakkummuri (CT) (627936) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Muringur Vadakkummuri (CT) is a town in the [[Mukundapuram]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 2.79 sq. km. and harbouring 1177 households with total population of 4981 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 40 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 276 km. Male population is 2281 and female population is 2700. Scheduled Caste population is 275 and Scheduled Tribes population is 3. Census Location Code of the town is 627936<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class VI (Population < 5,000).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 40 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 43 km. Railway station is at Divine nagar at a distance of 4 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 4451 (89.36%)
* Literate male population: 2050 (89.87%)
* Literate female population: 2401 (88.93%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 150 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Chalakudy (2 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 22 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 5 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 13 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Chalakudy (2 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (40 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (26 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (40 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kodakara (16 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Chalakudy (51 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Koratty (5 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Chalakudy (5 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Chalakudy (5 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kallur thekkummuri (ct) (18 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 7 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Chalakudy (5 km) .
There are 2 private Old Age Homes in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Chalakudy (5 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Chalakudy (5 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Muringur Vadakkummuri (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Beverages,Milk products,Tiles


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Mukundapuram tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


