{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803291
|native_name=Muvattupuzha (M)
|subdivision_name3=Muvattupuzha
|subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Ernakulam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Muvattupuzha]]
|Nearest city=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=13.18
|elevation_m=
|population_total=30397
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2306
|population_blank1=15010
|population_blank2=15387
|female_per_1000_male=1025
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Muvattupuzha (M) (803291) ==

Muvattupuzha (M) is a town in the [[Muvattupuzha]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 13.18 sq. km. and harbouring 7414 households with total population of 30397 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 35 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 205 km. Male population is 15010 and female population is 15387. Scheduled Caste population is 1588 and Scheduled Tribes population is 139. Census Location Code of the town is 803291<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 40 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 40 km. Railway station is at Angamaly at a distance of 33 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2915 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 30
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: #N/A
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 900 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There are 2 Alternative Medicine hospitals in the town.
There are 30 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 40 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 40 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 40 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 22 km .
There are 11 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 10 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 29 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 6 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 7 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 9 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 6 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 7 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 6 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Mulamthuruthy  (3 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (40 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (40 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (50 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Arakunnam (12 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kochi (40 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalamassery (45 km) .
 
There are 2 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kochi (12 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kothamangalam (5 km) .
There are 2 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 8 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Muvattupuzha (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Cement bricks,Readymade dresses,Timber products


== Market and Banking ==
There are 8 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 7 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 7 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 3 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 3 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Muvattupuzha]]
[[Categories:Ernakulam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


