{{Infobox settlement
| name=Muzhappilangad (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kannur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=7.19
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=23709
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=3297
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1162
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=85.65%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627249
| footnotes=
}}

== Muzhappilangad (CT) (627249) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Muzhappilangad (CT) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 7.19 sq. km. and harbouring 4460 households with total population of 23709 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 13 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 502 km. Male population is 10965 and female population is 12744. Scheduled Caste population is 451 and Scheduled Tribes population is 66. Census Location Code of the town is 627249<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 72 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 70 km. Railway station is at Kannur at a distance of 13 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2996 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 20306 (85.65%)
* Literate male population: 9392 (85.65%)
* Literate female population: 10914 (85.64%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 450 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thalassery (7 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 15 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 18 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 7 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 11 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Kannur (18 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Dharmadam (5 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (18 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (18 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (13 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (8 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thottada  (85 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Edakkad (7 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Thalassery (7 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Edakkad (7 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Koothuparamba (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kannur (13 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Kannur (13 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Thalassery (7 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Kannur (17 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Muzhappilangad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom,Beedi,Coir


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


