{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627357
|native_name=Nadapuram (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Vadakara
|subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kozhikode]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Vadakara]]
|Nearest city=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=20.44
|elevation_m=
|population_total=40230
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1968
|population_blank1=18700
|population_blank2=21530
|female_per_1000_male=1151
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Nadapuram (CT) (627357) ==

Nadapuram (CT) is a town in the [[Vadakara]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 20.44 sq. km. and harbouring 8455 households with total population of 40230 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 65 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 485 km. Male population is 18700 and female population is 21530. Scheduled Caste population is 572 and Scheduled Tribes population is 73. Census Location Code of the town is 627357<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 65 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 65 km. Railway station is at Vadakara at a distance of 14 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3218 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 32357
* Literate male population: 15464 (82.7%)
* Literate female population: 16893 (78.46%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Vadakara (14 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 25 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 8 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 14 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 14 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 67 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 5 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 20 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 25 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (65 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (45 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (65 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Maniyur (20 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kunnamangalam (77 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Vadakara (14 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Vadakara (14 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Vadakara (14 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Vadakara (14 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Vadakara (14 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Vadakara  (18 km) .
There are 2 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Nadapuram (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Copra


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 4 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Vadakara]]
[[Categories:Kozhikode district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


