{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627845
|native_name=Nadathara (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Thrissur
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Thrissur]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=2.38
|elevation_m=
|population_total=11969
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=5028
|population_blank1=5848
|population_blank2=6121
|female_per_1000_male=1046
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Nadathara (CT) (627845) ==

Nadathara (CT) is a town in the [[Thrissur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 2.38 sq. km. and harbouring 2871 households with total population of 11969 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 305 km. Male population is 5848 and female population is 6121. Scheduled Caste population is 683 and Scheduled Tribes population is 19. Census Location Code of the town is 627845<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 12 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 74 km. Railway station is at Thrissur at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 19


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 10338
* Literate male population: 5124 (87.62%)
* Literate female population: 5214 (85.18%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 350 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrissur (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 6 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 2 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 21 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (22 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Chittilappilly (14 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (12 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrissur (12 km) .
There is 1 government other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Thrissur (8 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest government Cinema Theatre is at Thrissur (8 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Thrissur (8 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Nadathara (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Pottary making,Bags and suit case,Ornaments and garments


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


