{{Infobox settlement
| name=Naduvannur (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Quilandy
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=22.2
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=25979
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1170
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1119
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=83.83%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627395
| footnotes=
}}

== Naduvannur (CT) (627395) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Naduvannur (CT) is a town in the [[Quilandy]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 22.2 sq. km. and harbouring 6207 households with total population of 25979 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 35 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 450 km. Male population is 12260 and female population is 13719. Scheduled Caste population is 2936 and Scheduled Tribes population is 55. Census Location Code of the town is 627395<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 35 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 35 km. Railway station is at Quilandy at a distance of 14 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2769 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 21777 (83.83%)
* Literate male population: 10646 (86.84%)
* Literate female population: 11131 (81.14%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Quilandy (14 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 14 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 9 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 9 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 9 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 9 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 22 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Perambra (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (35 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (31 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (35 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kozhikode (15 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kozhikode (35 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Quilandy (14 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kozhikode (35 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kozhikode (35 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kozhikode (35 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kozhikode (35 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (15 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Naduvannur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Textiles


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Towns in Quilandy tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


