{{Infobox settlement
| name=Naduvattom (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Malappuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Tirur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=14.89
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=21273
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1428
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1111
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=79.81%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627536
| footnotes=
}}

== Naduvattom (CT) (627536) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Naduvattom (CT) is a town in the [[Tirur]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 14.89 sq. km. and harbouring 4060 households with total population of 21273 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 38 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 385 km. Male population is 10074 and female population is 11199. Scheduled Caste population is 2058 and Scheduled Tribes population is 38. Census Location Code of the town is 627536<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 38 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 85 km. Railway station is at Kuttippuram at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2769 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 16978 (79.81%)
* Literate male population: 8177 (81.17%)
* Literate female population: 8801 (78.59%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 55 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Tirur (18 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 5 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 38 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 6 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 14 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Kuttippuram (4 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Kuttippuram (4 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Tirur (18 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (65 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (65 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (85 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kuttippuram (4 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kuttippuram (4 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Tirur (18 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Tirur (18 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Tirur (18 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kuttippuram (4 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kuttippuram (5 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kuttippuram (5 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Tirur (18 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Tirunavaya (3 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Kuttippuram (4 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Naduvattom (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Metal products,Interlock bricks,Plastic products 


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Tirur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Malappuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


