{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627421
|native_name=Nanmanda (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kozhikode
|subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kozhikode]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kozhikode]]
|Nearest city=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=23.09
|elevation_m=
|population_total=27316
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1183
|population_blank1=12910
|population_blank2=14406
|female_per_1000_male=1115
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Nanmanda (CT) (627421) ==

Nanmanda (CT) is a town in the [[Kozhikode]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 23.09 sq. km. and harbouring 6761 households with total population of 27316 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 21 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 436 km. Male population is 12910 and female population is 14406. Scheduled Caste population is 3130 and Scheduled Tribes population is 1207. Census Location Code of the town is 627421<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 21 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 21 km. Railway station is at Kozhikode at a distance of 21 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2703 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 23914
* Literate male population: 11457 (88.75%)
* Literate female population: 12457 (86.47%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1200 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kozhikode (21 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 14 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 25 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 25 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 25 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 25 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 7 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Chelannur (4 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (21 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (14 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (21 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Puthiyangadi (12 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Puthiyangadi (12 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Puthiyangadi (12 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kakkodi (6 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Chelannur (4 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kozhikode (21 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kozhikode (21 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Chevayoor (18 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (21 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kozhikode (21 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Kozhikode (21 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Nanmanda (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Copra,Paddy


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Kozhikode district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


