{{Infobox settlement
| name=Narath (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kannur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=8.29
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=13092
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1579
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1189
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=81.32%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627227
| footnotes=
}}

== Narath (CT) (627227) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Narath (CT) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 8.29 sq. km. and harbouring 2557 households with total population of 13092 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 13 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 530 km. Male population is 5979 and female population is 7113. Scheduled Caste population is 1624 and Scheduled Tribes population is 38. Census Location Code of the town is 627227<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 63 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 98 km. Railway station is at Kannur at a distance of 13 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2995 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 27


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 10647 (81.32%)
* Literate male population: 4980 (83.29%)
* Literate female population: 5667 (79.67%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 60 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kannur (13 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 24 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 24 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 24 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 24 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 24 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 24 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 24 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 24 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 2 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Puzhathi  (15 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (98 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (20 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kadannappalli  (20 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (20 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kannur (20 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada  (20 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kannur (13 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kannur (13 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Cherukunnu  (5 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kannur (14 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Pallikkunnu (14 km) .
There is 1 private stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kannur (10 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Kannur (10 km) .
The nearest private Public Library is at Kannur (10 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Narath (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom,Blackboard


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


