{{Infobox settlement
| name=Nattakam (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kottayam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kottayam
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=22.34
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=38599
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1727
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1053
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=90.17%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628177
| footnotes=
}}

== Nattakam (CT) (628177) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Nattakam (CT) is a town in the [[Kottayam]] taluka of [[Kottayam]] district with an area of 22.34 sq. km. and harbouring 9778 households with total population of 38599 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kottayam]] is at a distance of 4 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 148 km. Male population is 18800 and female population is 19799. Scheduled Caste population is 2343 and Scheduled Tribes population is 206. Census Location Code of the town is 628177<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 45 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 58 km. Railway station is at Chingavanam at a distance of 4 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2897 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 34803 (90.17%)
* Literate male population: 17017 (90.52%)
* Literate female population: 17786 (89.83%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kottayam (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 11 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 4 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 5 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 9 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 11 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 8 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 9 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Science in the town. 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottayam (4 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (4 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Arpookara (11 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Panachikkad (8 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Akalakunnam (26 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kottayam  (4 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kottayam  (4 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kottayam (4 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kottayam (5 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kottayam (4 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 12 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Nattakam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): White cement,Footwears,P v c pipes


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 10 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kottayam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kottayam tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kottayam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


