{{Infobox settlement
| name=Nedumpana (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kollam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kollam
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=13.74
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=29454
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2143
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1088
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=83.02%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628443
| footnotes=
}}

== Nedumpana (CT) (628443) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Nedumpana (CT) is a town in the [[Kollam]] taluka of [[Kollam]] district with an area of 13.74 sq. km. and harbouring 7094 households with total population of 29454 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kollam]] is at a distance of 13 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 70 km. Male population is 14106 and female population is 15348. Scheduled Caste population is 2780 and Scheduled Tribes population is 37. Census Location Code of the town is 628443<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 13 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 70 km. Railway station is at Kollam at a distance of 13 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1790 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 24452 (83.02%)
* Literate male population: 11959 (84.78%)
* Literate female population: 12493 (81.4%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 150 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kollam (13 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 13 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 13 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 13 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 2 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 13 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 24 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 20 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Adichanalloor  (3 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kottamkara (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (70 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (70 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kulasekharapuram (6 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kollam (13 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kollam (13 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Karunagappally (6 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kollam (13 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kollam (13 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kollam (13 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kollam (13 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kollam (5 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Nedumpana (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Bricks and tiles,Cashew nut,Textiles


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 4 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kollam tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kollam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


