{{Infobox settlement
| name=Neduva (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Malappuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Tirurangadi
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=14.81
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=35996
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2430
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1079
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=80.69%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627554
| footnotes=
}}

== Neduva (CT) (627554) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Neduva (CT) is a town in the [[Tirurangadi]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 14.81 sq. km. and harbouring 6833 households with total population of 35996 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 32 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 370 km. Male population is 17308 and female population is 18688. Scheduled Caste population is 2610 and Scheduled Tribes population is 28. Census Location Code of the town is 627554<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 32 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 34 km. Railway station is at Parappanangadi at a distance of 1 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1568 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 29


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 29045 (80.69%)
* Literate male population: 14232 (82.23%)
* Literate female population: 14813 (79.26%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Tirur (17 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 11 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 17 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There are 2 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 34 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 11 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Commerce in the town. 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Tirurangadi (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (40 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (21 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (34 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thenhippalam (21 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thenhippalam (21 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Tirur (17 km) .
 
There are 5 private Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Malappuram (32 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Tirurangadi (6 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Tirurangadi (6 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Tirurangadi (34 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Neduva (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Textiles,Tiles,Rice


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Tirurangadi tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Malappuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


