{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803311
|native_name=Nedumangad (M)
|subdivision_name3=Nedumangad
|subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thiruvananthapuram]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Nedumangad]]
|Nearest city=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=32.53
|elevation_m=
|population_total=60161
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1849
|population_blank1=29016
|population_blank2=31145
|female_per_1000_male=1073
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Nedumangad (M) (803311) ==

Nedumangad (M) is a town in the [[Nedumangad]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 32.53 sq. km. and harbouring 15576 households with total population of 60161 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 19 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 19 km. Male population is 29016 and female population is 31145. Scheduled Caste population is 5752 and Scheduled Tribes population is 263. Census Location Code of the town is 803311<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (population_total 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 19 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 19 km. Railway station is at Thiruvananthapuram at a distance of 19 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1828 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: #N/A
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 13750 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 7 km .
There are 4 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 18 km .
There is 1 Other medical amenities in the town.
There are 27 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 8 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 45 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (19 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (19 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College - Others in the town.The nearest private Degree College - Others is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Medical College in the town.The nearest private Medical College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Attingal (3 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thiruvananthapuram (19 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There are 6 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Thiruvananthapuram (19 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thiruvananthapuram (19 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Thiruvananthapuram (19 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Thiruvananthapuram (19 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 5 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 6 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Nedumangad (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Satellite spares,Rubber products


== Market and Banking ==
There are 6 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 3 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 7 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Nedumangad]]
[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


