{{Infobox settlement
| name=Nedumpura (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Talappilly
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=12.91
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=12399
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=960
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1091
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=0.47%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627758
| footnotes=
}}

== Nedumpura (CT) (627758) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Nedumpura (CT) is a town in the [[Talappilly]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 12.91 sq. km. and harbouring 2645 households with total population of 12399 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 33 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 313 km. Male population is 5929 and female population is 6470. Scheduled Caste population is 1196 and Scheduled Tribes population is 8. Census Location Code of the town is 627758<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 33 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 113 km. Railway station is at Vallathol nagar at a distance of 3 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 58 (0.47%)
* Literate male population: 36 (0.61%)
* Literate female population: 22 (0.34%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 560 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Shoranur (3 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 3 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 13 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 13 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 3 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 2 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Cheruthuruthi (3 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Cheruthuruthi (3 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Shoranur (3 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (33 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (40 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (33 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Shoranur (7 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Wadakkanchery (16 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Palakkad (8 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (33 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Shoranur (5 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Painkulam (5 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (34 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Shoranur (10 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Cheruthuruthi (3 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Nedumpura (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==







[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Talappilly tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


