{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627764
|native_name=Nelluwaya (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Talappilly
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Talappilly]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=6.87
|elevation_m=
|population_total=5994
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=872
|population_blank1=2849
|population_blank2=3145
|female_per_1000_male=1103
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Nelluwaya (CT) (627764) ==

Nelluwaya (CT) is a town in the [[Talappilly]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 6.87 sq. km. and harbouring 1464 households with total population of 5994 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 28 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 350 km. Male population is 2849 and female population is 3145. Scheduled Caste population is 1363 and Scheduled Tribes population is 2. Census Location Code of the town is 627764<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 28 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 108 km. Railway station is at Wadakkanchery at a distance of 20 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 5090
* Literate male population: 2457 (86.24%)
* Literate female population: 2633 (83.72%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Wadakkanchery (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 2 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 10 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 2 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 28 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Middle School is at Karikkad  (2 km) .
The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at Karikkad  (2 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Karikkad  (2 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thrissur (28 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (28 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (33 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (28 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (28 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (28 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (28 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Thrissur (28 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrissur (28 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (28 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thrissur (28 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (28 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Thrissur (28 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Thrissur (28 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kunnamkulam (8 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Nelluwaya (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice


== Market and Banking ==


There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Talappilly]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


