{{Infobox settlement
| name=Nenmenikkara (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Mukundapuram
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=10.41
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=18067
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1735
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1032
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=87.25%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627920
| footnotes=
}}

== Nenmenikkara (CT) (627920) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Nenmenikkara (CT) is a town in the [[Mukundapuram]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 10.41 sq. km. and harbouring 4397 households with total population of 18067 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 20 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 265 km. Male population is 8891 and female population is 9176. Scheduled Caste population is 1938 and Scheduled Tribes population is 37. Census Location Code of the town is 627920<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 20 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 40 km. Railway station is at Puthukkad at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 15763 (87.25%)
* Literate male population: 7892 (88.76%)
* Literate female population: 7871 (85.78%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 800 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrissur (20 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 9 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 10 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 20 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Puthukkad (5 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Puthukkad (5 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Irinjalakuda (16 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (23 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Vylathoor (20 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (20 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Irinjalakuda (20 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Irinjalakuda (15 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Irinjalakuda (20 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Nenmenikkara (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Tile


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Mukundapuram tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


