{{Infobox settlement
| name=New Mahe (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Thalassery
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=3.66
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=10986
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=3001
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1260
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=85.92%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627290
| footnotes=
}}

== New Mahe (CT) (627290) ==

== Demography & Population ==

New Mahe (CT) is a town in the [[Thalassery]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 3.66 sq. km. and harbouring 2144 households with total population of 10986 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 24 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 480 km. Male population is 4861 and female population is 6125. Scheduled Caste population is 84 and Scheduled Tribes population is 33. Census Location Code of the town is 627290<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 90 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 66 km. Railway station is at Thalassery at a distance of 3 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2570 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 9439 (85.92%)
* Literate male population: 4094 (84.22%)
* Literate female population: 5345 (87.27%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 150 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Mahe (3 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 3 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 3 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 3 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 3 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 3 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 3 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 6 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 8 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Panoor (5 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Palayad (15 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (36 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (25 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Eranholi (3 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thottada  (3 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada (17 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Thalassery (3 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thalassery (3 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Koothuparamba (15 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thalassery (3 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thalassery (3 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Thalassery (3 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thalassery (3 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Thalassery (3 km) .
There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
New Mahe (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Banian cloth,Handloom,Prawn


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thalassery tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


