{{Infobox settlement
| name=Neyyattinkara (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Neyyattinkara
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=3.33
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=70850
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=21276
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1052
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803313
| footnotes=
}}

== Neyyattinkara (M) (803313) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Neyyattinkara (M) is a town in the [[Neyyattinkara]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 3.33 sq. km. and harbouring 18176 households with total population of 70850 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 18 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 18 km. Male population is 34513 and female population is 36337. Scheduled Caste population is 7772 and Scheduled Tribes population is 131. Census Location Code of the town is 803313<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (Population 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 18 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 18 km. Railway station is at Neyyattinkara at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1687 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1000 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There are 2 Alternative Medicine hospitals in the town.
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There are 2 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 36 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 2 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 13 km .
There are 28 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 6 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 18 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 17 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 17 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 6 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 8 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 7 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 7 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kanjiramkulam (18 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (18 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (18 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thiruvananthapuram (18 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thiruvananthapuram (22 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Special School for Disableds in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thiruvananthapuram (18 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thiruvananthapuram (18 km) .
There are 2 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 11 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.There are 4 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Neyyattinkara (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance):  auto mobile accessories,Handloom 


== Market and Banking ==
There are 9 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 5 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 9 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 4 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 8 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Neyyattinkara tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thiruvananthapuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


