{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627488
|native_name=Nilambur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Nilambur
|subdivision_name2=Malappuram
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Malappuram]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Nilambur]]
|Nearest city=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=30.79
|elevation_m=
|population_total=46366
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1505
|population_blank1=22262
|population_blank2=24104
|female_per_1000_male=1082
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Nilambur (CT) (627488) ==

Nilambur (CT) is a town in the [[Nilambur]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 30.79 sq. km. and harbouring 10223 households with total population of 46366 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 38 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 418 km. Male population is 22262 and female population is 24104. Scheduled Caste population is 3470 and Scheduled Tribes population is 945. Census Location Code of the town is 627488<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 38 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 75 km. Railway station is at Nilambur at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2400 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 38742
* Literate male population: 18873 (84.78%)
* Literate female population: 19869 (82.43%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 380 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 18 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There are 4 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 24 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
There is 1 Mobile health clinic in the town.
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 6 km .
There are 15 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 36 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 10 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 10 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 6 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Malappuram (38 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (75 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (44 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (75 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Perinthalmanna (49 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kozhikode (75 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Perinthalmanna (49 km) .
There is 1 private Vocational Training School in the town. 
There are 5 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Malappuram (4 km) .
There is 1 government Working Women's Hostel in the town.There are 4 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Old Age Homes in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Nilambur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Wooden furniture,"bricks,  tiles and cookeries",Electrical items


== Market and Banking ==
There are 6 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 4 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 6 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 6 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Nilambur]]
[[Categories:Malappuram district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


