{{Infobox settlement
| name=North Thrikkaripur (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kasaragod
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Hosdurg
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=9.02
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=18210
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2018
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1165
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=82.21%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627173
| footnotes=
}}

== North Thrikkaripur (CT) (627173) ==

== Demography & Population ==

North Thrikkaripur (CT) is a town in the [[Hosdurg]] taluka of [[Kasaragod]] district with an area of 9.02 sq. km. and harbouring 3771 households with total population of 18210 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kasaragod]] is at a distance of 57 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 574 km. Male population is 8409 and female population is 9801. Scheduled Caste population is 990 and Scheduled Tribes population is 17. Census Location Code of the town is 627173<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 17 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 135 km. Railway station is at North thrikkaripur at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3450 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 14970 (82.21%)
* Literate male population: 7089 (84.3%)
* Literate female population: 7881 (80.41%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 350 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 8 km .
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 3 km .
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 23 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 11 km .
There are 7 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 9 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Cheruvathur (11 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (18 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (18 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Taliparamba (20 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Taliparamba  (19 km) .
There is 1 government Management Institute in the town.There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at South thrikkaripur  (10 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kanhangad (17 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 3 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kanhangad (17 km) .
There are 2 private Old Age Homes in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
North Thrikkaripur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Khadi,Metal products,Timber products


== Market and Banking ==
There are 4 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Towns in Hosdurg tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kasaragod district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


