{{Infobox settlement
| name=Oachira (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kollam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Karunagappally
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=13.29
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=28412
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2137
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1162
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=85.76%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628363
| footnotes=
}}

== Oachira (CT) (628363) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Oachira (CT) is a town in the [[Karunagappally]] taluka of [[Kollam]] district with an area of 13.29 sq. km. and harbouring 7494 households with total population of 28412 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kollam]] is at a distance of 34 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 104 km. Male population is 13139 and female population is 15273. Scheduled Caste population is 2478 and Scheduled Tribes population is 132. Census Location Code of the town is 628363<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 34 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 104 km. Railway station is at Oachira at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2790 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 24366 (85.76%)
* Literate male population: 11382 (86.63%)
* Literate female population: 12984 (85.01%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1217 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Karunagappally (11 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 12 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There are 8 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 13 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 10 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Kulasekharapuram (4 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Karunagappally (11 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (104 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (104 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kulasekharapuram (12 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kallelibhagom (5 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Adoor (60 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Karunagappally (11 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kollam (10 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Chavara  (32 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kulasekharapuram  (4 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kollam (34 km) .
There is 1 government Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kollam (30 km) .
The nearest government Cinema Theatre is at Karunagappally (8 km) .
There are 5 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Oachira (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Foam bed,Coconut oil,Coir


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Karunagappally tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kollam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


