{{Infobox settlement
| name=Olavanna (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kozhikode
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=11.32
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=43895
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=3877
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1042
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=85.58%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627432
| footnotes=
}}

== Olavanna (CT) (627432) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Olavanna (CT) is a town in the [[Kozhikode]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 11.32 sq. km. and harbouring 9482 households with total population of 43895 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 8 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 410 km. Male population is 21489 and female population is 22406. Scheduled Caste population is 1591 and Scheduled Tribes population is 121. Census Location Code of the town is 627432<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 8 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 8 km. Railway station is at Kozhikode at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2704 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 37564 (85.58%)
* Literate male population: 18566 (86.4%)
* Literate female population: 18998 (84.79%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 160 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kozhikode (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 13 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 4 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There are 4 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 13 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Kozhikode (8 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Kozhikode (8 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Pantheeramkavu  (4 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (12 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (8 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Chathamangalam (20 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Nellikode (12 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kuttikkattoor (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kuttikattoor (6 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kuttikkattoor  (5 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kozhikode (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kuttikkattoor (6 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Chevayoor (6 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (15 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kozhikode (8 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Olavanna (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Slipper,Bakery food products,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 5 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


