{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627596
|native_name=Ongallur -II (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Ottappalam
|subdivision_name2=Palakkad
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Palakkad]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Ottappalam]]
|Nearest city=[[Palakkad (m)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=16.37
|elevation_m=
|population_total=26273
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1604
|population_blank1=12924
|population_blank2=13349
|female_per_1000_male=1032
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Ongallur -II (CT) (627596) ==

Ongallur -II (CT) is a town in the [[Ottappalam]] taluka of [[Palakkad]] district with an area of 16.37 sq. km. and harbouring 5022 households with total population of 26273 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Palakkad]] is at a distance of 50 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 342 km. Male population is 12924 and female population is 13349. Scheduled Caste population is 3244 and Scheduled Tribes population is 26. Census Location Code of the town is 627596<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Palakkad (m) at a distance of 50 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Coimbatore(m corp. )  at a distance of 75 km. Railway station is at Vadanakurissi at a distance of 1 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2500 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 38
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 20926
* Literate male population: 10483 (81.11%)
* Literate female population: 10443 (78.23%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 140 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Shoranur (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 12 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 4 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 50 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 5 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 19 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Pattambi (5 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (35 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (44 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (35 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Shoranur (6 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Vaniyamkulam (12 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Shoranur  (6 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrithala (8 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Palakkad  (50 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kolapully (6 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Pattambi (5 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Ottappalam (18 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Ottappalam (18 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Pattambi (5 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Ongallur -II (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Bricks,Agro equipments


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Palakkad]]
[[Categories:Ottappalam]]
[[Categories:Palakkad district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


