{{Infobox settlement
| name=Ongallur -I (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Palakkad
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Ottappalam
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=15.31
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=16998
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1110
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Palakkad (m)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1045
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=82.36%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627597
| footnotes=
}}

== Ongallur -I (CT) (627597) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Ongallur -I (CT) is a town in the [[Ottappalam]] taluka of [[Palakkad]] district with an area of 15.31 sq. km. and harbouring 3495 households with total population of 16998 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Palakkad]] is at a distance of 50 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 340 km. Male population is 8310 and female population is 8688. Scheduled Caste population is 2054 and Scheduled Tribes population is 7. Census Location Code of the town is 627597<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Palakkad (m) at a distance of 50 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Coimbatore(m corp. )  at a distance of 76 km. Railway station is at Pattambi at a distance of 2 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2500 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 38
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 27


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 14000 (82.36%)
* Literate male population: 6941 (83.53%)
* Literate female population: 7059 (81.25%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 140 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Shoranur (11 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 40 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 15 km .
There is 1 Other medical amenities in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 16 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Pattambi (5 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Pattambi (5 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (36 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (43 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (36 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Shoranur (10 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Vaniyamkulam (16 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Shoranur  (9 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Ongalloor-ii (4 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrithala (6 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Palakkad  (50 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Vallappuzha (4 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Pattambi (4 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Ottappalam (22 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Ottappalam (18 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Pattambi (4 km) .
There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Ongallur -I (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Bricks


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Palakkad]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ottappalam tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Palakkad district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


