{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627801
|native_name=Orumanayur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Chavakkad
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Chavakkad]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=6.02
|elevation_m=
|population_total=14064
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2336
|population_blank1=6243
|population_blank2=7821
|female_per_1000_male=1252
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Orumanayur (CT) (627801) ==

Orumanayur (CT) is a town in the [[Chavakkad]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 6.02 sq. km. and harbouring 3035 households with total population of 14064 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 30 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 330 km. Male population is 6243 and female population is 7821. Scheduled Caste population is 1217 and Scheduled Tribes population is 30. Census Location Code of the town is 627801<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 30 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 110 km. Railway station is at Guruvayoor at a distance of 3 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2770 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 20


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 11662
* Literate male population: 5161 (82.67%)
* Literate female population: 6501 (83.12%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 650 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Guruvayoor (7 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 20 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 10 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
There is 1 Other medical amenities in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Guruvayoor (7 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (30 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (34 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (30 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Chittilappilly (28 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (30 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Nattika (20 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Chavakkad (3 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kunnamkulam (15 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (30 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kunnamkulam (4 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Guruvayoor (7 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Guruvayoor (7 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (38 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Chavakkad (4 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Orumanayur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Beedi,Copra,Fish products


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 5 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Chavakkad]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


