{{Infobox settlement
| name=Othukkungal (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Malappuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Tirurangadi
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=17.28
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=39139
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2264
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1104
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=80.63%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627549
| footnotes=
}}

== Othukkungal (CT) (627549) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Othukkungal (CT) is a town in the [[Tirurangadi]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 17.28 sq. km. and harbouring 7084 households with total population of 39139 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 5 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 365 km. Male population is 18595 and female population is 20544. Scheduled Caste population is 1574 and Scheduled Tribes population is 47. Census Location Code of the town is 627549<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 5 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 45 km. Railway station is at Tirur at a distance of 20 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1568 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 29


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 31558 (80.63%)
* Literate male population: 15049 (80.93%)
* Literate female population: 16509 (80.36%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Malappuram (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 20 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 3 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 24 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 15 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Malappuram (5 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (60 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (35 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (45 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thenhippalam (35 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thenhippalam (35 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Tirur (20 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Malappuram (5 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Malappuram (5 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Malappuram (5 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Kottakkal (5 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Tavanur (5 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kottakkal (5 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Othukkungal (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil,Rice


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Tirurangadi tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Malappuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


