{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803274
|native_name=Ottappalam (M)
|subdivision_name3=Ottappalam
|subdivision_name2=Palakkad
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Palakkad]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Ottappalam]]
|Nearest city=[[Palakkad (m)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=32.66
|elevation_m=
|population_total=53792
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1647
|population_blank1=25359
|population_blank2=28433
|female_per_1000_male=1121
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Ottappalam (M) (803274) ==

Ottappalam (M) is a town in the [[Ottappalam]] taluka of [[Palakkad]] district with an area of 32.66 sq. km. and harbouring 12484 households with total population of 53792 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Palakkad]] is at a distance of 32 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 326 km. Male population is 25359 and female population is 28433. Scheduled Caste population is 4765 and Scheduled Tribes population is 89. Census Location Code of the town is 803274<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (population_total 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Palakkad (m) at a distance of 32 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Coimbatore(m corp. )  at a distance of 85 km. Railway station is at Ottappalam at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2545.14 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32.3
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22.9


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: #N/A
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 700 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Shoranur (15 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There are 2 Alternative Medicine hospitals in the town.
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 5 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 3 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 15 km .
There are 24 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 23 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 15 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 8 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 4 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 5 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There are 6 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (46 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (44 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (46 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Akathethara (41 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Shoranur (4 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Shoranur  (12 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Palakkad  (32 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Palakkad (20 km) .
There are 3 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 9 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 7 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Ottappalam (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There are 12 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 10 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:Palakkad]]
[[Categories:Ottappalam]]
[[Categories:Palakkad district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


