{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627859
|native_name=Padiyam (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Thrissur
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Thrissur]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=5.51
|elevation_m=
|population_total=11623
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2109
|population_blank1=5339
|population_blank2=6284
|female_per_1000_male=1176
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Padiyam (CT) (627859) ==

Padiyam (CT) is a town in the [[Thrissur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 5.51 sq. km. and harbouring 2867 households with total population of 11623 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 17 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 314 km. Male population is 5339 and female population is 6284. Scheduled Caste population is 1129 and Scheduled Tribes population is 36. Census Location Code of the town is 627859<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 17 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 90 km. Railway station is at Thrissur at a distance of 17 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2764 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 10233
* Literate male population: 4685 (87.75%)
* Literate female population: 5548 (88.29%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrissur (17 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 18 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 18 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 18 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 3 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 19 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Anthicad (18 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Manalur (18 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thrissur (17 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (17 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (22 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (17 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (17 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (17 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Nattika (18 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Anthicad  (18 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Manalur  (18 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (17 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thrissur (24 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (24 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Thrissur (18 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (18 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kanjani (4 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Anthicad (3 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Thrissur (18 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Padiyam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir


== Market and Banking ==



There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


