{{Infobox settlement
| name=Paduvilayi (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Thalassery
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=15.08
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=20598
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1365
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1113
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=84.69%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627274
| footnotes=
}}

== Paduvilayi (CT) (627274) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Paduvilayi (CT) is a town in the [[Thalassery]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 15.08 sq. km. and harbouring 4213 households with total population of 20598 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 19 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 507 km. Male population is 9748 and female population is 10850. Scheduled Caste population is 192 and Scheduled Tribes population is 61. Census Location Code of the town is 627274<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 75 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 83 km. Railway station is at Thalassery at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3479 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 17444 (84.69%)
* Literate male population: 8402 (86.19%)
* Literate female population: 9042 (83.34%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 570 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Koothuparamba (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 8 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 20 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 20 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 6 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 9 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 13 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 5 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Koothuparamba (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Palayad (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (25 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (5 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (17 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thottada  (22 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Mattannur (16 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Koothuparamba (15 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kannur (20 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thalassery (15 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kannur (20 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thalassery (17 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Koothuparamba (10 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 3 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Paduvilayi (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil,Handloom,Pvc pipe


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 4 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thalassery tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


