{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628193
|native_name=Paippad (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Changanassery
|subdivision_name2=Kottayam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kottayam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Changanassery]]
|Nearest city=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=8.86
|elevation_m=
|population_total=21338
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2408
|population_blank1=10321
|population_blank2=11017
|female_per_1000_male=1067
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Paippad (CT) (628193) ==

Paippad (CT) is a town in the [[Changanassery]] taluka of [[Kottayam]] district with an area of 8.86 sq. km. and harbouring 5289 households with total population of 21338 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kottayam]] is at a distance of 22 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 140 km. Male population is 10321 and female population is 11017. Scheduled Caste population is 2408 and Scheduled Tribes population is 29. Census Location Code of the town is 628193<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 32 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 52 km. Railway station is at Changanassery at a distance of 4 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2469 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 18930
* Literate male population: 9146 (88.62%)
* Literate female population: 9784 (88.81%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Changanassery (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 17 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 9 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 4 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 22 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 22 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Science only in the town. 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Commerce in the town. 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Changanassery  (4 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottayam (22 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (32 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Arpookara (28 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Pathanamthitta (10 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kottayam (22 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Nattakam (22 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Changanacherry (4 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Changanassery (4 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kottayam  (22 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kottayam (22 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Changanassery  (22 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Changanassery (4 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Changanassery (4 km) .
There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Changanassery (4 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Paippad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Foot wears,Mat,Rice


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kottayam]]
[[Categories:Changanassery]]
[[Categories:Kottayam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


