{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803294
|native_name=Palai (M)
|subdivision_name3=Meenachil
|subdivision_name2=Kottayam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kottayam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Meenachil]]
|Nearest city=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=16.06
|elevation_m=
|population_total=22056
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1373
|population_blank1=10768
|population_blank2=11288
|female_per_1000_male=1048
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Palai (M) (803294) ==

Palai (M) is a town in the [[Meenachil]] taluka of [[Kottayam]] district with an area of 16.06 sq. km. and harbouring 5280 households with total population of 22056 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kottayam]] is at a distance of 31 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 183 km. Male population is 10768 and female population is 11288. Scheduled Caste population is 626 and Scheduled Tribes population is 79. Census Location Code of the town is 803294<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 45 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 69 km. Railway station is at Ettumanoor at a distance of 22 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3000 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: #N/A
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 3000 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There are 2 Alternative Medicine hospitals in the town.
There are 5 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 30 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 30 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 30 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 30 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 30 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 3 km .
There are 30 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 60 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 10 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 8 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 7 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 5 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 4 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts and Sciences in the town. 
 
There are 2 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottayam (31 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (28 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Arpookara (28 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Choondachery (5 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 3 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Old Age Homes in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.There are 2 private stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 12 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Palai (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rubber products,"wooden, steel furniture","bakery items, coconut oil"


== Market and Banking ==
There are 18 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 22 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 18 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 16 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kottayam]]
[[Categories:Meenachil]]
[[Categories:Kottayam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


