{{Infobox settlement
| name=Palakkad (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Palakkad
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Palakkad
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=26.6
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=130955
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=4923
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Palakkad (m)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1051
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803275
| footnotes=
}}

== Palakkad (M) (803275) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Palakkad (M) is a town in the [[Palakkad]] taluka of [[Palakkad]] district with an area of 26.6 sq. km. and harbouring 31176 households with total population of 130955 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Palakkad]] is at a distance of 0 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 365 km. Male population is 63833 and female population is 67122. Scheduled Caste population is 10068 and Scheduled Tribes population is 213. Census Location Code of the town is 803275<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class I (Population > 1,00,000).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Palakkad (m) at a distance of 0 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Coimbatore(m corp. )  at a distance of 48 km. Railway station is at Palakkad at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2315 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32.5
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 6922 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There are 2 Alternative Medicine hospitals in the town.
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 18 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 18 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 5 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
There is 1 Mobile health clinic in the town.
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 25 km .
There are 40 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 12 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 339 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 12 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 9 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 6 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 9 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Degree College of Arts onlys in the town.There are 2 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There are 2 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (26 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (45 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (26 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (26 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Hemambikanagar  (6 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Vaniyamkulam- ii  (8 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government other educational facilities in the town.There are 2 private other educational facilitiess in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 7 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 11 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Public Librarys in the town.There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Palakkad (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Banana chips,Pappad,Pickles


== Market and Banking ==
There are 29 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 27 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 17 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 4 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 3 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Palakkad]]
[[Categories:Towns in Palakkad tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Palakkad district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


