{{Infobox settlement
| name=Palayad (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Vadakara
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=11.97
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=18141
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1515
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1108
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=84.09%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627365
| footnotes=
}}

== Palayad (CT) (627365) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Palayad (CT) is a town in the [[Vadakara]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 11.97 sq. km. and harbouring 4138 households with total population of 18141 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 50 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 475 km. Male population is 8605 and female population is 9536. Scheduled Caste population is 1111 and Scheduled Tribes population is 64. Census Location Code of the town is 627365<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 50 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 50 km. Railway station is at Vadakara at a distance of 9 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3218 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 15255 (84.09%)
* Literate male population: 7453 (86.61%)
* Literate female population: 7802 (81.82%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 500 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Vadakara (9 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 9 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 9 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 55 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 55 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 55 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 29 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 55 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 10 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Maniyur (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (50 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (57 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (50 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kunnamangalam (60 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Vadakara (9 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Vadakara (9 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Vadakara (9 km) .
There is 1 private other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Vadakara (9 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Vadakara (9 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Vadakara  (5 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Vadakara (9 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 7 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Palayad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir,Textiles,Pappad


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Towns in Vadakara tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


