{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627855
|native_name=Palissery (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Thrissur
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Thrissur]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=3.1
|elevation_m=
|population_total=7724
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2491
|population_blank1=3741
|population_blank2=3983
|female_per_1000_male=1064
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Palissery (CT) (627855) ==

Palissery (CT) is a town in the [[Thrissur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 3.1 sq. km. and harbouring 1910 households with total population of 7724 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 8 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 287 km. Male population is 3741 and female population is 3983. Scheduled Caste population is 442 and Scheduled Tribes population is 5. Census Location Code of the town is 627855<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 8 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 78 km. Railway station is at Thrissur at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2764 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 6834
* Literate male population: 3332 (89.07%)
* Literate female population: 3502 (87.92%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 140 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrissur (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 8 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 9 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 1 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 13 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 1 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 1 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 13 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at Avinissery  (8 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Manakkody (8 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thrissur (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (24 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (8 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (8 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (8 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (8 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Thrissur (8 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrissur (8 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thrissur (8 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (8 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Thrissur (8 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Thrissur (5 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Manalur (5 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Palissery (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Gold ornaments,Wooden furniture


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


