{{Infobox settlement
| name=Pallikal (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Malappuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Tirurangadi
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=25.73
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=46962
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1825
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1030
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=80.08%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627542
| footnotes=
}}

== Pallikal (CT) (627542) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Pallikal (CT) is a town in the [[Tirurangadi]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 25.73 sq. km. and harbouring 8970 households with total population of 46962 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 33 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 400 km. Male population is 23133 and female population is 23829. Scheduled Caste population is 4129 and Scheduled Tribes population is 135. Census Location Code of the town is 627542<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 33 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 20 km. Railway station is at Feroke at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1568 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 29


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 37608 (80.08%)
* Literate male population: 18945 (81.9%)
* Literate female population: 18663 (78.32%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 290 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kozhikode (20 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 6 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 5 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 30 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 30 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 5 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Science in the town. 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Tirur (16 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (25 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (20 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thenhippalam (8 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Chelambra  (40 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Moonniyur (11 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Kondotty (6 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Tirur (26 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kuttippuram (5 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Tirurangadi (20 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thenhippalam (20 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kuttippuram (20 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thenhippalam (8 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Valanchery (10 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Thenhippalam (10 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pallikal (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Wooden furniture,Readymade dresses,Hardboard box


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Tirurangadi tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Malappuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


