{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627881
|native_name=Pallippuram (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kodungallur
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kodungallur]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=6.27
|elevation_m=
|population_total=7718
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1230
|population_blank1=3790
|population_blank2=3928
|female_per_1000_male=1036
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Pallippuram (CT) (627881) ==

Pallippuram (CT) is a town in the [[Kodungallur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 6.27 sq. km. and harbouring 1896 households with total population of 7718 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 40 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 260 km. Male population is 3790 and female population is 3928. Scheduled Caste population is 622 and Scheduled Tribes population is 4. Census Location Code of the town is 627881<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 40 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 40 km. Railway station is at Chalakudy at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 6613
* Literate male population: 3321 (87.63%)
* Literate female population: 3292 (83.81%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Chalakudy (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 9 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 9 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 9 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 20 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 40 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 20 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 20 km .
There is 1 Other medical amenities in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Panangad (10 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Edavilangu (10 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kodungallur (9 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (40 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (28 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (40 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kuruvilassery (9 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (40 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Nattika (25 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Annamanada (12 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Chalakudy (10 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Irinjalakuda (20 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Methala (9 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (40 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Methala (9 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Irinjalakuda (20 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Mala (5 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Poyya  (9 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pallippuram (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.



There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Kodungallur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


