{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627167
|native_name=Pallikkara (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Hosdurg
|subdivision_name2=Kasaragod
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kasaragod]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Hosdurg]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=6.34
|elevation_m=
|population_total=14334
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2260
|population_blank1=6611
|population_blank2=7723
|female_per_1000_male=1168
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Pallikkara (CT) (627167) ==

Pallikkara (CT) is a town in the [[Hosdurg]] taluka of [[Kasaragod]] district with an area of 6.34 sq. km. and harbouring 2734 households with total population of 14334 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kasaragod]] is at a distance of 22 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 542 km. Male population is 6611 and female population is 7723. Scheduled Caste population is 433 and Scheduled Tribes population is 110. Census Location Code of the town is 627167<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 7 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 150 km. Railway station is at Pallikkara at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3560 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 10842
* Literate male population: 5131 (77.61%)
* Literate female population: 5711 (73.95%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kanhangad (7 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There are 4 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 7 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 7 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 3 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 7 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kanhangad (7 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (18 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (18 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Pariyaram (67 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kasaragod (22 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kasaragod (22 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kanhangad (8 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Mavungal (11 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kanhangad (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kanhangad (8 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pallikkara (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Beedi,Cashew nut,Steel  items


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 4 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Hosdurg]]
[[Categories:Kasaragod district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


