{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628221
|native_name=Pallippuram (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Cherthala
|subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Alappuzha]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Cherthala]]
|Nearest city=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=25.53
|elevation_m=
|population_total=28276
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1107
|population_blank1=13893
|population_blank2=14383
|female_per_1000_male=1035
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Pallippuram (CT) (628221) ==

Pallippuram (CT) is a town in the [[Cherthala]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 25.53 sq. km. and harbouring 6910 households with total population of 28276 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 30 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 190 km. Male population is 13893 and female population is 14383. Scheduled Caste population is 3196 and Scheduled Tribes population is 120. Census Location Code of the town is 628221<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 30 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 56 km. Railway station is at Cherthala at a distance of 11 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1936 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 26


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 24467
* Literate male population: 12296 (88.51%)
* Literate female population: 12171 (84.62%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Cherthala (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 17 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 30 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 38 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 11 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.

There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (56 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (17 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (26 km) .
There is 1 government Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Cherthala (8 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Cherthala (8 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Cherthala (8 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Cherthala (8 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Alappuzha  (30 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Alappuzha (13 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Cherthala (8 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Alappuzha (12 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Alappuzha (32 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Alappuzha (8 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Cherthala (8 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pallippuram (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Cement,Coir,Sand bricks


== Market and Banking ==


There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 5 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Cherthala]]
[[Categories:Alappuzha district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


