{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627239
|native_name=Pallikkunnu (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kannur
|subdivision_name2=Kannur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kannur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kannur]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=6.84
|elevation_m=
|population_total=27820
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=4067
|population_blank1=12732
|population_blank2=15088
|female_per_1000_male=1185
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Pallikkunnu (CT) (627239) ==

Pallikkunnu (CT) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 6.84 sq. km. and harbouring 6125 households with total population of 27820 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 9 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 504 km. Male population is 12732 and female population is 15088. Scheduled Caste population is 1238 and Scheduled Tribes population is 106. Census Location Code of the town is 627239<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 63 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 94 km. Railway station is at Kannur at a distance of 9 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2996 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 24655
* Literate male population: 11252 (88.38%)
* Literate female population: 13403 (88.83%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kannur (9 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 18 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 14 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 3 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 2 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 14 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Puzhathi  (1 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (94 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (23 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (45 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (15 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kannur (15 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada (8 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kannur (9 km) .
There are 2 private other educational facilitiess in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kannur (15 km) .
There are 3 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Kannur (3 km) .
The nearest private Public Library is at Kannur (3 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pallikkunnu (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Textiles,Beedi,Milk products


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Kannur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


