{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628511
|native_name=Pallippuram (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Thiruvananthapuram 
|subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thiruvananthapuram]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Thiruvananthapuram ]]
|Nearest city=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=9.31
|elevation_m=
|population_total=22512
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2418
|population_blank1=11573
|population_blank2=10939
|female_per_1000_male=945
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Pallippuram (CT) (628511) ==

Pallippuram (CT) is a town in the [[Thiruvananthapuram ]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 9.31 sq. km. and harbouring 5053 households with total population of 22512 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 30 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 30 km. Male population is 11573 and female population is 10939. Scheduled Caste population is 3989 and Scheduled Tribes population is 122. Census Location Code of the town is 628511<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 30 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 30 km. Railway station is at Kaniyapuram at a distance of 1 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1828 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 18929
* Literate male population: 10038 (86.74%)
* Literate female population: 8891 (81.28%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 450 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thiruvananthapuram (30 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 19 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 14 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 6 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 17 km .
There are 5 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thiruvananthapuram (30 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (30 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (30 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thiruvananthapuram (30 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thiruvananthapuram (30 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Melthonnakal (7 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Attingal (14 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thiruvananthapuram (30 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thiruvananthapuram (30 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thiruvananthapuram (5 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pallippuram (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir,Furniture(bamboo)


== Market and Banking ==
There are 4 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 4 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram ]]
[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


