{{Infobox settlement
| name=Pallichal (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Neyyattinkara
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=19.22
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=53861
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2802
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1033
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=84.76%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628543
| footnotes=
}}

== Pallichal (CT) (628543) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Pallichal (CT) is a town in the [[Neyyattinkara]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 19.22 sq. km. and harbouring 13762 households with total population of 53861 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 10 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 10 km. Male population is 26490 and female population is 27371. Scheduled Caste population is 6915 and Scheduled Tribes population is 98. Census Location Code of the town is 628543<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (Population 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 10 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 10 km. Railway station is at Balaramapuram at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1828 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 45652 (84.76%)
* Literate male population: 22872 (86.34%)
* Literate female population: 22780 (83.23%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1000 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Neyyattinkara (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 11 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 8 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 12 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 4 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kanjiramkulam (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Thiruvananthapuarm (10 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kalliyoor (5 km) .
There are 12 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pallichal (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom,Match box


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 10 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 9 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Neyyattinkara tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thiruvananthapuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


