{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627802
|native_name=Paluvai (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Chavakkad
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Chavakkad]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=4.35
|elevation_m=
|population_total=9127
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2098
|population_blank1=4183
|population_blank2=4944
|female_per_1000_male=1181
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Paluvai (CT) (627802) ==

Paluvai (CT) is a town in the [[Chavakkad]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 4.35 sq. km. and harbouring 2126 households with total population of 9127 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 27 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 322 km. Male population is 4183 and female population is 4944. Scheduled Caste population is 139 and Scheduled Tribes population is 32. Census Location Code of the town is 627802<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 27 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 120 km. Railway station is at Guruvayoor at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2757 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 7732
* Literate male population: 3501 (83.7%)
* Literate female population: 4231 (85.58%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 810 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Guruvayoor (3 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 2 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 3 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 8 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 7 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at Thaikkad (3 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Thaikkad (3 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Guruvayoor (3 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (27 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (32 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (27 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Mundur (15 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (27 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kunnamkulam (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Guruvayoor (3 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kunnamkulam (10 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (27 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Guruvayoor (3 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Guruvayoor (3 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (27 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Thaikkad (3 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Thaikkad (3 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Thaikkad (3 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Paluvai (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Copra,Coconut oil,Beedi


== Market and Banking ==


There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Chavakkad]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


