{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628440
|native_name=Panayam (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kollam
|subdivision_name2=Kollam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kollam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kollam]]
|Nearest city=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=11.02
|elevation_m=
|population_total=25607
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2323
|population_blank1=12267
|population_blank2=13340
|female_per_1000_male=1087
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Panayam (CT) (628440) ==

Panayam (CT) is a town in the [[Kollam]] taluka of [[Kollam]] district with an area of 11.02 sq. km. and harbouring 6415 households with total population of 25607 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kollam]] is at a distance of 10 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 81 km. Male population is 12267 and female population is 13340. Scheduled Caste population is 3992 and Scheduled Tribes population is 37. Census Location Code of the town is 628440<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 10 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 81 km. Railway station is at Perinad at a distance of 1 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2790 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 30


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 21937
* Literate male population: 10750 (87.63%)
* Literate female population: 11187 (83.86%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kollam (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 13 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There are 4 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Thrikkaruva (4 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kollam (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (81 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (81 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kulasekharapuram (10 km) .
There is 1 government Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kollam (10 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Karunagappally (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kollam (10 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kollam (10 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kollam (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kollam (10 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kollam (10 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kollam (2 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kollam (7 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kollam (6 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Public Library is at Kollam (12 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Panayam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Cashew nut,Coir,Wood products


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Kollam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


