{{Infobox settlement
| name=Panangad (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Quilandy
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=11.22
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=14347
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1278
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1081
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=88.33%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627396
| footnotes=
}}

== Panangad (CT) (627396) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Panangad (CT) is a town in the [[Quilandy]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 11.22 sq. km. and harbouring 3637 households with total population of 14347 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 27 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 442 km. Male population is 6891 and female population is 7456. Scheduled Caste population is 2129 and Scheduled Tribes population is 23. Census Location Code of the town is 627396<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 27 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 27 km. Railway station is at Quilandy at a distance of 18 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2705 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 12672 (88.33%)
* Literate male population: 6168 (89.51%)
* Literate female population: 6504 (87.23%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 300 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kozhikode (27 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 18 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 30 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 7 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Balusseri (1 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Balusseri (1 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Perambra (2 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (27 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (28 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (27 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Chathamangalam (30 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kozhikode (27 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kozhikode (27 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Quilandy (18 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kozhikode (27 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kozhikode (27 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kozhikode (27 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kozhikode (27 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (27 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Balussery (1 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Balussery (1 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Panangad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Khadi  products


== Market and Banking ==


There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Towns in Quilandy tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


