{{Infobox settlement
| name=Panmana (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kollam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Karunagappally
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=10.1
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=29008
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2872
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1057
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=84.17%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628371
| footnotes=
}}

== Panmana (CT) (628371) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Panmana (CT) is a town in the [[Karunagappally]] taluka of [[Kollam]] district with an area of 10.1 sq. km. and harbouring 7067 households with total population of 29008 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kollam]] is at a distance of 25 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 100 km. Male population is 14098 and female population is 14910. Scheduled Caste population is 2587 and Scheduled Tribes population is 75. Census Location Code of the town is 628371<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 25 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 100 km. Railway station is at Karunagappally at a distance of 6 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2790 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 24415 (84.17%)
* Literate male population: 12086 (85.73%)
* Literate female population: 12329 (82.69%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Karunagappally (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 11 km .
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 9 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There are 2 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 2 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 18 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Chavara  (3 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Chavara (3 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (100 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (100 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kulasekharapuram (18 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thodiyoor (8 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Chavara (6 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Karunagappally (6 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Chavara  (6 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Ayanivelikulangara (5 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kollam (25 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Karunagappally (8 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kollam (14 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kollam (18 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Karunagappally (5 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Panmana (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Titanium dioxide,Coir,Copra


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Karunagappally tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kollam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


