{{Infobox settlement
| name=Panniyannur (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Thalassery
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=10.02
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=22308
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2226
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1220
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=86.82%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627289
| footnotes=
}}

== Panniyannur (CT) (627289) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Panniyannur (CT) is a town in the [[Thalassery]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 10.02 sq. km. and harbouring 4866 households with total population of 22308 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 30 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 490 km. Male population is 10047 and female population is 12261. Scheduled Caste population is 223 and Scheduled Tribes population is 37. Census Location Code of the town is 627289<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 87 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 67 km. Railway station is at Thalassery at a distance of 9 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2570 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 19368 (86.82%)
* Literate male population: 8691 (86.5%)
* Literate female population: 10677 (87.08%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 775 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thalassery (9 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 18 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 8 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
There is 1 Other medical amenities in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 17 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Panoor (4 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Dharmadom (15 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Palayad (16 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (35 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Pariyaram (60 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Eranholi (10 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thottada  (30 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Edakkad (24 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Panoor (4 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thalassery (10 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Koothuparamba (14 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thalassery (10 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thalassery (10 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Thalassery (9 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Panoor (4 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Panoor (4 km) .
There are 9 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Panniyannur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Furniture,Beedi


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 4 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thalassery tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


