{{Infobox settlement
| name=Panoor (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Thalassery
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=8.54
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=17438
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2041
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1225
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=83.11%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627288
| footnotes=
}}

== Panoor (CT) (627288) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Panoor (CT) is a town in the [[Thalassery]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 8.54 sq. km. and harbouring 3590 households with total population of 17438 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 33 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 492 km. Male population is 7834 and female population is 9604. Scheduled Caste population is 139 and Scheduled Tribes population is 60. Census Location Code of the town is 627288<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 86 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 68 km. Railway station is at Thalassery at a distance of 11 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2570 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 14493 (83.11%)
* Literate male population: 6497 (82.93%)
* Literate female population: 7996 (83.26%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 500 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thalassery (11 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 23 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 10 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 6 km .
There are 4 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 11 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 11 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 11 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 21 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 13 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Palayad (19 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (38 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (70 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Eranholi (11 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thottada  (16 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada (25 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kannur (25 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Koothuparamba (20 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thalassery (11 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Koothuparamba (9 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thalassery (11 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Public Librarys in the town.There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Panoor (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Pepper,Copra


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 6 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thalassery tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


