{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627433
|native_name=Pantheeramkavu (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kozhikode
|subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kozhikode]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kozhikode]]
|Nearest city=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=10.11
|elevation_m=
|population_total=24537
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2427
|population_blank1=12136
|population_blank2=12401
|female_per_1000_male=1021
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Pantheeramkavu (CT) (627433) ==

Pantheeramkavu (CT) is a town in the [[Kozhikode]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 10.11 sq. km. and harbouring 5592 households with total population of 24537 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 8 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 442 km. Male population is 12136 and female population is 12401. Scheduled Caste population is 1076 and Scheduled Tribes population is 20. Census Location Code of the town is 627433<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 8 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 8 km. Railway station is at Kozhikode at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2703 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 21307
* Literate male population: 10693 (88.11%)
* Literate female population: 10614 (85.59%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 300 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kozhikode (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 10 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 4 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 7 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 13 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 5 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 15 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 10 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (14 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (8 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at West hill (15 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kunnamangalam (15 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kuttikkattoor (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kozhikode (8 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kozhikode (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kuttikkattoor (6 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Chevayoor (14 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (12 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kozhikode (8 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pantheeramkavu (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Curry powder,Coconut oil,Pickles


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Kozhikode district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


