{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627877
|native_name=Pappinivattom (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kodungallur
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kodungallur]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=6.36
|elevation_m=
|population_total=15336
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2411
|population_blank1=6909
|population_blank2=8427
|female_per_1000_male=1219
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Pappinivattom (CT) (627877) ==

Pappinivattom (CT) is a town in the [[Kodungallur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 6.36 sq. km. and harbouring 3820 households with total population of 15336 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 60 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 250 km. Male population is 6909 and female population is 8427. Scheduled Caste population is 2005 and Scheduled Tribes population is 41. Census Location Code of the town is 627877<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 60 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 30 km. Railway station is at Irinjalakuda at a distance of 21 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 30
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 13089
* Literate male population: 5908 (85.51%)
* Literate female population: 7181 (85.21%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 650 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Irinjalakuda (21 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 8 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 19 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 8 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Irinjalakuda (23 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (60 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (36 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (60 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Paravur (18 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (60 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Nattika (18 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Valappad (12 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Edavilangu (12 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Irinjalakuda (23 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Methala (13 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kodungallur (12 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at P.vemballur (9 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Irinjalakuda (21 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pappinivattom (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut products,Mat 


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Kodungallur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


