{{Infobox settlement
| name=Pappinisseri (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kannur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=15.22
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=35134
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2308
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1197
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=84.72%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627228
| footnotes=
}}

== Pappinisseri (CT) (627228) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Pappinisseri (CT) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 15.22 sq. km. and harbouring 7225 households with total population of 35134 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 527 km. Male population is 15988 and female population is 19146. Scheduled Caste population is 3025 and Scheduled Tribes population is 68. Census Location Code of the town is 627228<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 55 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 102 km. Railway station is at Pappinisseri at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2996 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 29766 (84.72%)
* Literate male population: 13672 (85.51%)
* Literate female population: 16094 (84.06%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kannur (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 17 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 13 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There are 3 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Science in the town. 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts and Commerce in the town. 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Puzhathi  (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (102 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (10 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kadannappalli  (14 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (12 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kannur (12 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalliassery (6 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kannur (12 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Cherukunnu  (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kannur (12 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kannur (12 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Cherukunnu  (8 km) .
There is 1 private stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pappinisseri (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Tiles,Plywood,Handloom


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


