{{Infobox settlement
| name=Parappukkara (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Mukundapuram
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=14.82
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=11893
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=802
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1085
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=88.1%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627923
| footnotes=
}}

== Parappukkara (CT) (627923) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Parappukkara (CT) is a town in the [[Mukundapuram]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 14.82 sq. km. and harbouring 3035 households with total population of 11893 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 21 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 360 km. Male population is 5703 and female population is 6190. Scheduled Caste population is 1813 and Scheduled Tribes population is 7. Census Location Code of the town is 627923<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 21 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 65 km. Railway station is at Nellayi at a distance of 3 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 38
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 10478 (88.1%)
* Literate male population: 5076 (89.01%)
* Literate female population: 5402 (87.27%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 150 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Irinjalakuda (9 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 4 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 15 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 4 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 6 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Puthukkad (4 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (21 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (25 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (21 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (21 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (21 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Amballur (6 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Irinjalakuda (9 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thrissur (18 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (21 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Nenmenikkara (8 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Puthukkad  (4 km) .
 
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Parappukkara (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Tile ,Foot care,Sanitary items


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Mukundapuram tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


