{{Infobox settlement
| name=Parassala (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Neyyattinkara
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=10.81
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=34096
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=3154
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1034
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=83.45%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628547
| footnotes=
}}

== Parassala (CT) (628547) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Parassala (CT) is a town in the [[Neyyattinkara]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 10.81 sq. km. and harbouring 8344 households with total population of 34096 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 30 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 30 km. Male population is 16761 and female population is 17335. Scheduled Caste population is 2632 and Scheduled Tribes population is 81. Census Location Code of the town is 628547<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 30 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 30 km. Railway station is at Parassala at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1828 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 40
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 34


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 28452 (83.45%)
* Literate male population: 14231 (84.91%)
* Literate female population: 14221 (82.04%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 2500 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Neyyattinkara (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
There are 7 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
There are 3 Maternity Homes in the town.
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 22 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 15 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 10 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 9 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kanjiramkulam (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (30 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (30 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thiruvananthapuram (30 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thiruvananthapuram (30 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thiruvananthapuram (30 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Neyyattinkara (10 km) .
There is 1 private other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Thiruvananthapuram (30 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thiruvananthapuram (30 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 8 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Parassala (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There are 4 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 9 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Neyyattinkara tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thiruvananthapuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


