{{Infobox settlement
| name=Paravur (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Paravur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=9.02
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=31503
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=3492
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1091
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803287
| footnotes=
}}

== Paravur (M) (803287) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Paravur (M) is a town in the [[Paravur]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 9.02 sq. km. and harbouring 8095 households with total population of 31503 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 30 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 258 km. Male population is 15060 and female population is 16443. Scheduled Caste population is 1577 and Scheduled Tribes population is 117. Census Location Code of the town is 803287<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 30 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 30 km. Railway station is at Aluva at a distance of 16 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3653 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1400 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There are 2 Alternative Medicine hospitals in the town.
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
There is 1 Mobile health clinic in the town.
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 18 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 8 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 30 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 10 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 6 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There are 4 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (30 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (16 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (18 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalamassery (9 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kalady (12 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 2 government Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Cinema Theatre in the town.There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 5 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Paravur (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom products,Bamboo products,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There are 10 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 7 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 6 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Paravur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernakulam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


