{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803308
|native_name=Paravoor (M)
|subdivision_name3=Kollam
|subdivision_name2=Kollam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kollam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kollam]]
|Nearest city=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=16.19
|elevation_m=
|population_total=37245
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2300
|population_blank1=16874
|population_blank2=20371
|female_per_1000_male=1207
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Paravoor (M) (803308) ==

Paravoor (M) is a town in the [[Kollam]] taluka of [[Kollam]] district with an area of 16.19 sq. km. and harbouring 9074 households with total population of 37245 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kollam]] is at a distance of 13 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 70 km. Male population is 16874 and female population is 20371. Scheduled Caste population is 4528 and Scheduled Tribes population is 52. Census Location Code of the town is 803308<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 13 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 70 km. Railway station is at Paravur at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2427 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 20


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: #N/A
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 17 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 14 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 24 km .
There are 18 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 18 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (70 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (70 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kulasekharapuram (12 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kollam (13 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kollam (13 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Karunagappally (26 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kollam (13 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kollam (13 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kollam (13 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kollam (13 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kollam (13 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kollam (4 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kollam (8 km) .
There are 4 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.There are 3 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Paravoor (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir,Copra,Cashew nut


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.

There are 5 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Kollam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


