{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627210
|native_name=Pariyaram (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Taliparamba
|subdivision_name2=Kannur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kannur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Taliparamba]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=32.68
|elevation_m=
|population_total=20405
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=624
|population_blank1=9582
|population_blank2=10823
|female_per_1000_male=1129
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Pariyaram (CT) (627210) ==

Pariyaram (CT) is a town in the [[Taliparamba]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 32.68 sq. km. and harbouring 4580 households with total population of 20405 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 24 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 545 km. Male population is 9582 and female population is 10823. Scheduled Caste population is 988 and Scheduled Tribes population is 33. Census Location Code of the town is 627210<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 40 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 110 km. Railway station is at Payyannur at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2990 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 16668
* Literate male population: 8067 (84.19%)
* Literate female population: 8601 (79.47%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Taliparamba (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 4 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 4 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 4 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Taliparamba (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (23 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (23 km) .
 
There is 1 private Medical College in the town.The nearest private Medical College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Taliparamba  (8 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Taliparamba  (8 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada  (26 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Payyannur (12 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Cherukunnu  (16 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Taliparamba (8 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Taliparamba (8 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Payyannur (12 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Payyannur (4 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Taliparamba (4 km) .
There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pariyaram (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice,Coconut oil,Rubber products


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Taliparamba]]
[[Categories:Kannur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


