{{Infobox settlement
| name=Pathanamthitta (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Pathanamthitta
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kozhenchery
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=23.5
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=37538
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1597
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1115
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803304
| footnotes=
}}

== Pathanamthitta (M) (803304) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Pathanamthitta (M) is a town in the [[Kozhenchery]] taluka of [[Pathanamthitta]] district with an area of 23.5 sq. km. and harbouring 9813 households with total population of 37538 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Pathanamthitta]] is at a distance of 0 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 113 km. Male population is 17744 and female population is 19794. Scheduled Caste population is 3292 and Scheduled Tribes population is 131. Census Location Code of the town is 803304<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 69 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 113 km. Railway station is at Chengannur at a distance of 26 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2790 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 30
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 2600 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 14 km .
There are 17 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 8 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There are 4 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 14 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
There is 1 Mobile health clinic in the town.
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 23 km .
There are 17 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 7 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 21 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 8 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 7 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
There is 1 private Degree College of Science only in the town. 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (113 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (50 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Thiruvalla (16 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thiruvalla (16 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Pandalam (16 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Thiruvalla (16 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Thiruvalla (16 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Old Age Homes in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 5 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pathanamthitta (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rubber products


== Market and Banking ==
There are 18 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 5 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 8 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 3 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Pathanamthitta]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhenchery tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Pathanamthitta district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


