{{Infobox settlement
| name=Pathiriyad (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Thalassery
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=13.01
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=18008
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1384
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1155
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=86.43%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627275
| footnotes=
}}

== Pathiriyad (CT) (627275) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Pathiriyad (CT) is a town in the [[Thalassery]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 13.01 sq. km. and harbouring 3914 households with total population of 18008 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 21 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 504 km. Male population is 8353 and female population is 9655. Scheduled Caste population is 345 and Scheduled Tribes population is 59. Census Location Code of the town is 627275<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 79 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 79 km. Railway station is at Thalassery at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3479 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 15565 (86.43%)
* Literate male population: 7249 (86.78%)
* Literate female population: 8316 (86.13%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is  kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Koothuparamba (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 4 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 4 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 4 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 15 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 7 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Koothuparamba (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Palayad (18 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (18 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (6 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thottada  (26 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada (15 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Dharmadom (12 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Koothuparamba (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kannur (6 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thalassery (12 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Eruvatty (5 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Koothuparamba (10 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pathiriyad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom,Hollow bricks


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 5 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 4 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thalassery tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


