{{Infobox settlement
| name=Pathiyoor (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Karthikappally
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=11.08
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=23460
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2117
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1144
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=86.61%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628261
| footnotes=
}}

== Pathiyoor (CT) (628261) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Pathiyoor (CT) is a town in the [[Karthikappally]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 11.08 sq. km. and harbouring 6089 households with total population of 23460 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 41 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 105 km. Male population is 10939 and female population is 12521. Scheduled Caste population is 2581 and Scheduled Tribes population is 110. Census Location Code of the town is 628261<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 41 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 105 km. Railway station is at Kayamkulam at a distance of 3 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1894 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 37
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 20318 (86.61%)
* Literate male population: 9531 (87.13%)
* Literate female population: 10787 (86.15%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 225 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kayamkulam (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 7 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 15 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 24 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 7 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Kayamkulam (5 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kayamkulam  (4 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (105 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (26 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (40 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Chengannur (30 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kayamkulam (15 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kayamkulam (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kayamkulam (5 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Haripad  (14 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Haripad (14 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Haripad (14 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kayamkulam (5 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Cheppad (8 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Haripad (12 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Mavelikkara (15 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Keerikkad (5 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pathiyoor (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Cashew nut,Textiles,Cot bolt


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 4 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Towns in Karthikappally tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Alappuzha district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


