{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628233
|native_name=Pathirappally (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Ambalappuzha
|subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Alappuzha]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Ambalappuzha]]
|Nearest city=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=7.16
|elevation_m=
|population_total=27445
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=3833
|population_blank1=13525
|population_blank2=13920
|female_per_1000_male=1029
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Pathirappally (CT) (628233) ==

Pathirappally (CT) is a town in the [[Ambalappuzha]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 7.16 sq. km. and harbouring 6739 households with total population of 27445 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 6 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 163 km. Male population is 13525 and female population is 13920. Scheduled Caste population is 587 and Scheduled Tribes population is 80. Census Location Code of the town is 628233<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 6 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 65 km. Railway station is at Thumpoly at a distance of 3 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1936 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 23977
* Literate male population: 11851 (87.62%)
* Literate female population: 12126 (87.11%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Alappuzha (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 6 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 8 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 7 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 3 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 18 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Alappuzha (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (65 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (26 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (6 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Alappuzha  (6 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Alappuzha (6 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Alappuzha (6 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Alappuzha (6 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Alappuzha  (6 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Alappuzha  (6 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Alappuzha (5 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Alappuzha (6 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Alappuzha (5 km) .
There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Public Library is at Aryad south (3 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pathirappally (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Homeopathic medicine,Glass,Coir  mats


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Ambalappuzha]]
[[Categories:Alappuzha district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


