{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627598
|native_name=Pattambi (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Ottappalam
|subdivision_name2=Palakkad
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Palakkad]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Ottappalam]]
|Nearest city=[[Palakkad (m)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=15.84
|elevation_m=
|population_total=28632
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1807
|population_blank1=14049
|population_blank2=14583
|female_per_1000_male=1038
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Pattambi (CT) (627598) ==

Pattambi (CT) is a town in the [[Ottappalam]] taluka of [[Palakkad]] district with an area of 15.84 sq. km. and harbouring 5897 households with total population of 28632 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Palakkad]] is at a distance of 59 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 341 km. Male population is 14049 and female population is 14583. Scheduled Caste population is 3471 and Scheduled Tribes population is 37. Census Location Code of the town is 627598<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Palakkad (m) at a distance of 59 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Coimbatore(m corp. )  at a distance of 78 km. Railway station is at Pattambi at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2500 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 40.1
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 32.8


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 23888
* Literate male population: 11855 (84.38%)
* Literate female population: 12033 (82.51%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 90 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Shoranur (15 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 31 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 5 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 17 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 11 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts only in the town.There are 4 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.There are 4 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (34 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (40 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (34 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (45 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (36 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Palakkad  (59 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Koppam (14 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Koppam (14 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Ottappalam (24 km) .
There are 3 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pattambi (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Domestic plastic articles,Iron products  and grills,Packet food


== Market and Banking ==
There are 4 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Palakkad]]
[[Categories:Ottappalam]]
[[Categories:Palakkad district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


