{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627285
|native_name=Pattiom (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Thalassery
|subdivision_name2=Kannur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kannur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Thalassery]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=12.67
|elevation_m=
|population_total=20161
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1591
|population_blank1=9205
|population_blank2=10956
|female_per_1000_male=1190
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Pattiom (CT) (627285) ==

Pattiom (CT) is a town in the [[Thalassery]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 12.67 sq. km. and harbouring 4661 households with total population of 20161 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 23 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 506 km. Male population is 9205 and female population is 10956. Scheduled Caste population is 183 and Scheduled Tribes population is 11. Census Location Code of the town is 627285<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 85 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 83 km. Railway station is at Thalassery at a distance of 14 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3335 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 17623
* Literate male population: 8066 (87.63%)
* Literate female population: 9557 (87.23%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 518 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thalassery (14 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 6 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 6 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 4 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 9 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 5 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Koothuparamba (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kannur (35 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (35 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Pariyaram (56 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Eranholi (15 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thottada  (15 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada (25 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Koothuparamba (6 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Koothuparamba (6 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Koothuparamba (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thalassery (15 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thalassery (15 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Koothuparamba (5 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.There is 1 private stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pattiom (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Ayurvedic medicines,Handloom,Copra


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 4 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Thalassery]]
[[Categories:Kannur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


