{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627806
|native_name=Pavaratty (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Chavakkad
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Chavakkad]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=4.12
|elevation_m=
|population_total=12299
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2985
|population_blank1=5570
|population_blank2=6729
|female_per_1000_male=1208
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Pavaratty (CT) (627806) ==

Pavaratty (CT) is a town in the [[Chavakkad]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 4.12 sq. km. and harbouring 2784 households with total population of 12299 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 23 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 300 km. Male population is 5570 and female population is 6729. Scheduled Caste population is 521 and Scheduled Tribes population is 11. Census Location Code of the town is 627806<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 23 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 80 km. Railway station is at Guruvayoor at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2770 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 37
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 10496
* Literate male population: 4752 (85.31%)
* Literate female population: 5744 (85.36%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 700 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Guruvayoor (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 12 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 18 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 23 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 23 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 23 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 23 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 11 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 8 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kandanassery (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (23 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (32 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (23 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (23 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (23 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (23 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Mullassery (6 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrissur (23 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (23 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (23 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Thrissur (23 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (23 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pavaratty (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Copra,Coir,Plastic goods


== Market and Banking ==
There are 5 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Chavakkad]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


