{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803257
|native_name=Payyannur (M)
|subdivision_name3=Taliparamba
|subdivision_name2=Kannur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kannur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Taliparamba]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=54.63
|elevation_m=
|population_total=72111
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1319
|population_blank1=33405
|population_blank2=38706
|female_per_1000_male=1158
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Payyannur (M) (803257) ==

Payyannur (M) is a town in the [[Taliparamba]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 54.63 sq. km. and harbouring 16996 households with total population of 72111 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 43 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 540 km. Male population is 33405 and female population is 38706. Scheduled Caste population is 4018 and Scheduled Tribes population is 153. Census Location Code of the town is 803257<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (population_total 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 30 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 120 km. Railway station is at Payyannur at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2996 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: #N/A
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 125 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 5 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 34 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 40 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 25 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 9 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 30 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 12 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 8 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 7 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (25 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (25 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Taliparamba (23 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Taliparamba  (23 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Cherukunnu  (17 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 2 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 13 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 8 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Payyannur (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Khadi,Handloom,Bell metal


== Market and Banking ==
There are 9 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 7 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 15 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 7 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Taliparamba]]
[[Categories:Kannur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


