{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627762
|native_name=Pazhanji (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Talappilly
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Talappilly]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=8.14
|elevation_m=
|population_total=14067
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1728
|population_blank1=6646
|population_blank2=7421
|female_per_1000_male=1116
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Pazhanji (CT) (627762) ==

Pazhanji (CT) is a town in the [[Talappilly]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 8.14 sq. km. and harbouring 3372 households with total population of 14067 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 30 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 330 km. Male population is 6646 and female population is 7421. Scheduled Caste population is 1690 and Scheduled Tribes population is 13. Census Location Code of the town is 627762<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 30 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 112 km. Railway station is at Wadakkanchery at a distance of 28 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 20


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 12096
* Literate male population: 5721 (86.08%)
* Literate female population: 6375 (85.9%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1000 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kunnamkulam (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 7 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 7 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 30 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 30 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 7 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (30 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (35 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (30 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Chiramangalam (8 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Desamangalam  (14 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kunnamkulam (7 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kunnamkulam (5 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (30 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Karikkad (6 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Karikkad (6 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Karikkad (6 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kunnamkulam (7 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Perumpilavu (8 km) .
There are 11 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pazhanji (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Talappilly]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


