{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627248
|native_name=Peralassery (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kannur
|subdivision_name2=Kannur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kannur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kannur]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=10.76
|elevation_m=
|population_total=16821
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1563
|population_blank1=7687
|population_blank2=9134
|female_per_1000_male=1188
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Peralassery (CT) (627248) ==

Peralassery (CT) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 10.76 sq. km. and harbouring 3830 households with total population of 16821 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 15 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 520 km. Male population is 7687 and female population is 9134. Scheduled Caste population is 397 and Scheduled Tribes population is 27. Census Location Code of the town is 627248<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 75 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 82 km. Railway station is at Kannur at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2996 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 14766
* Literate male population: 6723 (87.46%)
* Literate female population: 8043 (88.06%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 82 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kannur (15 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 15 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 15 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 15 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 15 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 13 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There are 3 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (22 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (22 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (15 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (30 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thottada  (6 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada (15 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kannur (15 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Mavilayi  (2 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kannur (15 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kannur (15 km) .
There are 2 government Old Age Homes in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Peralassery (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Beedi,Handloom,Coir


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Kannur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


