{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627800
|native_name=Perakam (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Chavakkad
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Chavakkad]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=5.05
|elevation_m=
|population_total=12072
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2390
|population_blank1=5588
|population_blank2=6484
|female_per_1000_male=1160
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Perakam (CT) (627800) ==

Perakam (CT) is a town in the [[Chavakkad]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 5.05 sq. km. and harbouring 2891 households with total population of 12072 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 32 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 335 km. Male population is 5588 and female population is 6484. Scheduled Caste population is 664 and Scheduled Tribes population is 9. Census Location Code of the town is 627800<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 32 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 102 km. Railway station is at Guruvayoor at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 10517
* Literate male population: 4875 (87.24%)
* Literate female population: 5642 (87.01%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 30 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Guruvayoor (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 8 km .
There are 7 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 4 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Guruvayoor (4 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Guruvayoor (4 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Guruvayoor (4 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (32 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (36 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (32 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (35 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (32 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kunnamkulam (8 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Chavakkad (5 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kunnamkulam (8 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (32 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kunnamkulam (5 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Iringaprom (5 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Guruvayoor (5 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Iringaprom (5 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Iringaprom (5 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Perakam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Food products,Pappad,Copra


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Chavakkad]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


