{{Infobox settlement
| name=Perinad (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kollam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kollam
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=13.05
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=35173
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2695
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1063
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=85.51%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628441
| footnotes=
}}

== Perinad (CT) (628441) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Perinad (CT) is a town in the [[Kollam]] taluka of [[Kollam]] district with an area of 13.05 sq. km. and harbouring 8719 households with total population of 35173 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kollam]] is at a distance of 9 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 76 km. Male population is 17046 and female population is 18127. Scheduled Caste population is 5226 and Scheduled Tribes population is 54. Census Location Code of the town is 628441<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 9 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 76 km. Railway station is at Perinad at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2790 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 30076 (85.51%)
* Literate male population: 14763 (86.61%)
* Literate female population: 15313 (84.48%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 875 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kollam (9 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 10 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 14 km .
There are 4 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 7 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 18 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kottamkara (5 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (76 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (76 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kulasekharapuram (14 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kollam (9 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kollam (9 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Karunagappally (4 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kollam (9 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kollam (9 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kollam (9 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kollam (10 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kollam (10 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kollam (5 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 5 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Perinad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Iron rod,Coir,Tiles


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kollam tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kollam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


