{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627292
|native_name=Peringathur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Thalassery
|subdivision_name2=Kannur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kannur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Thalassery]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=20.46
|elevation_m=
|population_total=40292
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1969
|population_blank1=18477
|population_blank2=21815
|female_per_1000_male=1180
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Peringathur (CT) (627292) ==

Peringathur (CT) is a town in the [[Thalassery]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 20.46 sq. km. and harbouring 8201 households with total population of 40292 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 29 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 482 km. Male population is 18477 and female population is 21815. Scheduled Caste population is 759 and Scheduled Tribes population is 71. Census Location Code of the town is 627292<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 98 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 68 km. Railway station is at Mahe at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2570 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 33829
* Literate male population: 15459 (83.67%)
* Literate female population: 18370 (84.21%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thalassery (14 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 14 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 4 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 2 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There are 6 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 6 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 17 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 7 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Panoor (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Pathiriyad (19 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (38 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Pariyaram (60 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kannur (32 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thottada  (20 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada (32 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Panoor (4 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thalassery (5 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Koothuparamba (14 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thalassery (14 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thalassery (14 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Thalassery (13 km) .
There are 2 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Thalassery (14 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Public Librarys in the town.There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Peringathur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 7 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Thalassery]]
[[Categories:Kannur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


