{{Infobox settlement
| name=Perole (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kasaragod
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Hosdurg
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=13.61
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=14965
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1099
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1100
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=83.51%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627170
| footnotes=
}}

== Perole (CT) (627170) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Perole (CT) is a town in the [[Hosdurg]] taluka of [[Kasaragod]] district with an area of 13.61 sq. km. and harbouring 3748 households with total population of 14965 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kasaragod]] is at a distance of 48 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 600 km. Male population is 7125 and female population is 7840. Scheduled Caste population is 543 and Scheduled Tribes population is 32. Census Location Code of the town is 627170<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 12 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 153 km. Railway station is at Nileshwar at a distance of 1 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3401 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 29


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 12498 (83.51%)
* Literate male population: 6167 (86.55%)
* Literate female population: 6331 (80.75%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 400 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kanhangad (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 3 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 9 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 2 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 7 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Nileshwar (3 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Nileshwar (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (22 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (24 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Pariyaram (35 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kasaragod (48 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kasaragod (48 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Kanhangad (12 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kanhangad (12 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Ajanur (17 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kanhangad (12 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kanhangad (12 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Kanhangad (12 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Chittarikkal (40 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kanhangad (12 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Hosdurg (12 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Perole (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Beedi


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.






[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Towns in Hosdurg tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kasaragod district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


