{{Infobox settlement
| name=Perumbaikad (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kottayam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kottayam
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=14.04
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=42839
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=3051
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1058
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=88.8%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628174
| footnotes=
}}

== Perumbaikad (CT) (628174) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Perumbaikad (CT) is a town in the [[Kottayam]] taluka of [[Kottayam]] district with an area of 14.04 sq. km. and harbouring 10577 households with total population of 42839 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kottayam]] is at a distance of 4 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 140 km. Male population is 20807 and female population is 22032. Scheduled Caste population is 2563 and Scheduled Tribes population is 156. Census Location Code of the town is 628174<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 47 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 67 km. Railway station is at Kottayam at a distance of 3 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2470 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 38040 (88.8%)
* Literate male population: 18620 (89.49%)
* Literate female population: 19420 (88.14%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 250 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kottayam (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 4 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 2 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 2 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 30 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There are 2 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottayam (4 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (4 km) .
 
There is 1 government Medical College in the town.The nearest private Medical College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Puthuppally (8 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kottayam (4 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Nattakam (7 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kottayam (3 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kottayam (4 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Perumbaikad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rubber products,Curry powder and food products,Granite


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Kottayam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kottayam tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kottayam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


