{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627546
|native_name=Peruvallur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Tirurangadi
|subdivision_name2=Malappuram
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Malappuram]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Tirurangadi]]
|Nearest city=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=18.91
|elevation_m=
|population_total=34941
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1847
|population_blank1=16883
|population_blank2=18058
|female_per_1000_male=1069
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Peruvallur (CT) (627546) ==

Peruvallur (CT) is a town in the [[Tirurangadi]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 18.91 sq. km. and harbouring 6411 households with total population of 34941 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 30 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 400 km. Male population is 16883 and female population is 18058. Scheduled Caste population is 2619 and Scheduled Tribes population is 61. Census Location Code of the town is 627546<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 30 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 30 km. Railway station is at Parappanangadi at a distance of 18 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1568 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 29


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 27459
* Literate male population: 13576 (80.41%)
* Literate female population: 13883 (76.88%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kozhikode (30 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 15 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 4 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 30 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 30 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 35 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 30 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 5 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Tirurangadi (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (40 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (30 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thenhippalam (10 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thenhippalam (10 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thenhippalam (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Tirurangadi (12 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Malappuram (30 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thenhippalam (8 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (32 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thenhippalam (8 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Thenhippalam (8 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Thenhippalam (8 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Peruvallur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Wooden furniture,Hollow bricks,Curry powder


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Tirurangadi]]
[[Categories:Malappuram district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


