{{Infobox settlement
| name=Perumbavoor (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kunnathunad
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=6.89
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=9185
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1333
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1021
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=87.03%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627961
| footnotes=
}}

== Perumbavoor (CT) (627961) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Perumbavoor (CT) is a town in the [[Kunnathunad]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 6.89 sq. km. and harbouring 2272 households with total population of 9185 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 21 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 265 km. Male population is 4543 and female population is 4642. Scheduled Caste population is 1014 and Scheduled Tribes population is 21. Census Location Code of the town is 627961<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (Population 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 35 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 35 km. Railway station is at Aluva at a distance of 16 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3656 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 30
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 7994 (87.03%)
* Literate male population: 3973 (87.45%)
* Literate female population: 4021 (86.62%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 20 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 17 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 32 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 6 km .
There are 11 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 27 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 7 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 6 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (35 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalady (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (16 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Mattoor (8 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Koovappady (4 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Perumbavoor (4 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Perumbavoor (4 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Perumbavoor (4 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Perumbavoor (4 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 8 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Perumbavoor (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Plywood,Wooden furniture,Rice


== Market and Banking ==
There are 8 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 8 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 7 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kunnathunad tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernakulam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


