{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627434
|native_name=Perumanna (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kozhikode
|subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kozhikode]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kozhikode]]
|Nearest city=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=16.5
|elevation_m=
|population_total=35460
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2149
|population_blank1=17479
|population_blank2=17981
|female_per_1000_male=1028
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Perumanna (CT) (627434) ==

Perumanna (CT) is a town in the [[Kozhikode]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 16.5 sq. km. and harbouring 7979 households with total population of 35460 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 18 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 430 km. Male population is 17479 and female population is 17981. Scheduled Caste population is 2288 and Scheduled Tribes population is 57. Census Location Code of the town is 627434<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 18 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 18 km. Railway station is at Kozhikode at a distance of 18 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2704 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 38
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 30099
* Literate male population: 15037 (86.03%)
* Literate female population: 15062 (83.77%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 600 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kozhikode (18 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 11 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Pantheeramkavu (3 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Pantheeramkavu  (4 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (18 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (16 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (18 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at West hill (20 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kunnamangalam (18 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kuttikkattoor (20 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kozhikode (18 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Pantheeramkavu (4 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kozhikode (18 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Chevayoor (18 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Pantheerankavu (4 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Pantheerankavu (4 km) .
There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Perumanna (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Paints,Soaps,Wood products


== Market and Banking ==


There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Kozhikode district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


