{{Infobox settlement
| name=Peruvayal (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kozhikode
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=15.76
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=27598
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1751
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1048
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=85.5%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627430
| footnotes=
}}

== Peruvayal (CT) (627430) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Peruvayal (CT) is a town in the [[Kozhikode]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 15.76 sq. km. and harbouring 6349 households with total population of 27598 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 427 km. Male population is 13471 and female population is 14127. Scheduled Caste population is 2351 and Scheduled Tribes population is 50. Census Location Code of the town is 627430<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 12 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 12 km. Railway station is at Kozhikode at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2705 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 23595 (85.5%)
* Literate male population: 11657 (86.53%)
* Literate female population: 11938 (84.5%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 500 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kozhikode (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 15 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 8 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There are 10 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (14 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (12 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kuttikkattur (2 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Nellikode (12 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Thazhekode (8 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Thazhekode (8 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kuttikkattoor  (4 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kozhikode (12 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kunnamangalam (8 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Chevayoor (14 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (20 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kozhikode (5 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Mavoor (4 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Mavoor (4 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Mavoor (4 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Peruvayal (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice,Rubber products


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


