{{Infobox settlement
| name=Perumbavoor (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kunnathunad
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=13.61
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=28110
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2065
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1040
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803284
| footnotes=
}}

== Perumbavoor (M) (803284) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Perumbavoor (M) is a town in the [[Kunnathunad]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 13.61 sq. km. and harbouring 7103 households with total population of 28110 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 36 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 228 km. Male population is 13775 and female population is 14335. Scheduled Caste population is 2365 and Scheduled Tribes population is 26. Census Location Code of the town is 803284<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 36 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 36 km. Railway station is at Aluva at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3653 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 2325 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 4 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There are 3 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 36 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There are 16 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 125 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (36 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalady (26 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kolencheri (20 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kothamangalam (18 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Koovappady (5 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 10 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 7 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Perumbavoor (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Timber,Wooden furniture,Rayon products


== Market and Banking ==
There are 10 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 7 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 5 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 5 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kunnathunad tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernakulam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


