{{Infobox settlement
| name=Pilicode (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kasaragod
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Hosdurg
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=7.13
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=9676
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1357
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1103
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=85.16%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627171
| footnotes=
}}

== Pilicode (CT) (627171) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Pilicode (CT) is a town in the [[Hosdurg]] taluka of [[Kasaragod]] district with an area of 7.13 sq. km. and harbouring 2318 households with total population of 9676 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kasaragod]] is at a distance of 57 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 574 km. Male population is 4600 and female population is 5076. Scheduled Caste population is 475 and Scheduled Tribes population is 3. Census Location Code of the town is 627171<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (Population 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 17 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 147 km. Railway station is at Chandera at a distance of 3 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3450 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 40
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 27


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 8240 (85.16%)
* Literate male population: 4042 (87.87%)
* Literate female population: 4198 (82.7%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 350 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrikkaripur (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 13 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 9 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 17 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 2 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 17 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 2 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Cheruvathur (9 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (16 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (16 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Pariyaram (25 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kasaragod (57 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kasaragod (57 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at North thrikkaripur  (4 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kanhangad (17 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Ajanur (21 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kanhangad (17 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kanhangad (17 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kanhangad (17 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kadannappalli (35 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Padne (10 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kanhangad (17 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pilicode (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Steel almirah


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Towns in Hosdurg tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kasaragod district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


