{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627281
|native_name=Pinarayi (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Thalassery
|subdivision_name2=Kannur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kannur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Thalassery]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=9.63
|elevation_m=
|population_total=16801
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1744
|population_blank1=7786
|population_blank2=9015
|female_per_1000_male=1157
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Pinarayi (CT) (627281) ==

Pinarayi (CT) is a town in the [[Thalassery]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 9.63 sq. km. and harbouring 3922 households with total population of 16801 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 14 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 492 km. Male population is 7786 and female population is 9015. Scheduled Caste population is 360 and Scheduled Tribes population is 28. Census Location Code of the town is 627281<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 72 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 72 km. Railway station is at Thalassery at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3479 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 14887
* Literate male population: 6909 (88.74%)
* Literate female population: 7978 (88.5%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 200 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thalassery (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 11 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 3 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 17 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 6 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Dharmadom (9 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Palayad (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (19 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (10 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Eranholi (4 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thottada  (2 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Koothuparamba (8 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Dharmadom (8 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Koothuparamba (15 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thalassery (8 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thalassery (8 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Thalassery (10 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Thalassery (8 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 16 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pinarayi (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Beedi,Clothes,Food  products


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Thalassery]]
[[Categories:Kannur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


