{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627529
|native_name=Ponmundam (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Tirur
|subdivision_name2=Malappuram
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Malappuram]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Tirur]]
|Nearest city=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=9.16
|elevation_m=
|population_total=25855
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2822
|population_blank1=11901
|population_blank2=13954
|female_per_1000_male=1172
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Ponmundam (CT) (627529) ==

Ponmundam (CT) is a town in the [[Tirur]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 9.16 sq. km. and harbouring 4625 households with total population of 25855 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 24 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 400 km. Male population is 11901 and female population is 13954. Scheduled Caste population is 406 and Scheduled Tribes population is 78. Census Location Code of the town is 627529<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 24 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 74 km. Railway station is at Tirur at a distance of 6 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2769 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 20497
* Literate male population: 9506 (79.88%)
* Literate female population: 10991 (78.77%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 150 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Tirur (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 6 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 41 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
There is 1 Other medical amenities in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 20 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 14 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Perumanna (4 km) .
 
 
 
 
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts and Commerces in the town. 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kozhikode (74 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (38 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (74 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kuttippuram (20 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Malappuram (24 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Tirur (6 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kattipparuthy (6 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Malappuram (24 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Valavannur (4 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Tirur (7 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Tavanur (21 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Tirur (6 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Tirur (5 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Tirur (6 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Ponmundam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Paper plate,Furniture


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Tirur]]
[[Categories:Malappuram district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


