{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627798
|native_name=Pookode (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Chavakkad
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Chavakkad]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=4.96
|elevation_m=
|population_total=9366
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1888
|population_blank1=4242
|population_blank2=5124
|female_per_1000_male=1207
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Pookode (CT) (627798) ==

Pookode (CT) is a town in the [[Chavakkad]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 4.96 sq. km. and harbouring 2149 households with total population of 9366 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 35 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 335 km. Male population is 4242 and female population is 5124. Scheduled Caste population is 484 and Scheduled Tribes population is 11. Census Location Code of the town is 627798<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 35 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 115 km. Railway station is at Guruvayoor at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2800 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 7974
* Literate male population: 3608 (85.05%)
* Literate female population: 4366 (85.21%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 450 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Guruvayoor (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 2 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 3 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 4 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 6 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Commerce in the town. 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (35 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (29 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (35 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (30 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kunnamkulam (15 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kunnamkulam (8 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kunnamkulam (8 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kunnamkulam (8 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (35 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Guruvayoor (5 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Guruvayoor (5 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Iringaprom (5 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kunnamkulam (5 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Vylathur  (5 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pookode (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil,Food products,Pappad


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Chavakkad]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


