{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627427
|native_name=Poolacode (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kozhikode
|subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kozhikode]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kozhikode]]
|Nearest city=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=28.48
|elevation_m=
|population_total=29872
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1048
|population_blank1=14668
|population_blank2=15204
|female_per_1000_male=1036
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Poolacode (CT) (627427) ==

Poolacode (CT) is a town in the [[Kozhikode]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 28.48 sq. km. and harbouring 6946 households with total population of 29872 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 25 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 440 km. Male population is 14668 and female population is 15204. Scheduled Caste population is 3639 and Scheduled Tribes population is 49. Census Location Code of the town is 627427<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 25 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 25 km. Railway station is at Kozhikode at a distance of 25 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2705 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 25541
* Literate male population: 12743 (86.88%)
* Literate female population: 12798 (84.18%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kozhikode (25 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 9 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 15 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (25 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (25 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Chathamangalam (5 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kunnamangalam (5 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Chevayoor (8 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kurikode (10 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Nellikode (18 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kozhikode (25 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kunnamangalam (5 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kunnamangalam (5 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (9 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kozhikode (6 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kunnamangalam (5 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Poolacode (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rubber products,Copra


== Market and Banking ==


There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Kozhikode district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


