{{Infobox settlement
| name=Poomangalam (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Mukundapuram
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=9.23
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=11141
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1207
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1190
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=87.66%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627933
| footnotes=
}}

== Poomangalam (CT) (627933) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Poomangalam (CT) is a town in the [[Mukundapuram]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 9.23 sq. km. and harbouring 2909 households with total population of 11141 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 27 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 290 km. Male population is 5086 and female population is 6055. Scheduled Caste population is 2088 and Scheduled Tribes population is 3. Census Location Code of the town is 627933<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 27 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 85 km. Railway station is at Irinjalakuda at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 9766 (87.66%)
* Literate male population: 4445 (87.4%)
* Literate female population: 5321 (87.88%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 200 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Irinjalakuda (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 7 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 29 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 29 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Irinjalakuda (4 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (27 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (17 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (27 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (27 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Irinjalakuda (20 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Amballur (25 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kodungallur (27 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Irinjalakuda (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Poomangalam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Fire products,Coconut oil,Rice


== Market and Banking ==

There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Mukundapuram tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


