{{Infobox settlement
| name=Poothakkulam (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kollam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kollam
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=16.27
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=29447
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1809
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1218
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=82.88%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628451
| footnotes=
}}

== Poothakkulam (CT) (628451) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Poothakkulam (CT) is a town in the [[Kollam]] taluka of [[Kollam]] district with an area of 16.27 sq. km. and harbouring 7560 households with total population of 29447 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kollam]] is at a distance of 26 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 85 km. Male population is 13276 and female population is 16171. Scheduled Caste population is 4222 and Scheduled Tribes population is 69. Census Location Code of the town is 628451<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 26 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 85 km. Railway station is at Paravoor at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2790 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 30


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 24406 (82.88%)
* Literate male population: 11201 (84.37%)
* Literate female population: 13205 (81.66%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 250 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Paravoor (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 11 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 11 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 17 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 27 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 22 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 26 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kollam (26 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (85 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (85 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kulasekharapuram (8 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Meenad (4 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kollam (5 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Adichanalloor  (8 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kollam (26 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kollam (26 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kollam (26 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Mayyanad  (11 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kollam (26 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Meenad (6 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kollam (26 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Poothakkulam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kollam tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kollam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


