{{Infobox settlement
| name=Porathissery (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Mukundapuram
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=9.31
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=16768
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1801
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1141
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=87.09%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627925
| footnotes=
}}

== Porathissery (CT) (627925) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Porathissery (CT) is a town in the [[Mukundapuram]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 9.31 sq. km. and harbouring 4188 households with total population of 16768 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 16 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 286 km. Male population is 7829 and female population is 8939. Scheduled Caste population is 2256 and Scheduled Tribes population is 17. Census Location Code of the town is 627925<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 16 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 74 km. Railway station is at Irinjalakuda at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 14603 (87.09%)
* Literate male population: 6893 (88.04%)
* Literate female population: 7710 (86.25%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 450 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Irinjalakuda (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 10 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 1 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 16 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 28 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 1 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 1 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 28 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Irinjalakuda (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (16 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (26 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (16 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (16 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (16 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kallettumkara (10 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Irinjalakuda (12 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Irinjalakuda (12 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 2 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (16 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Irinjalakuda (12 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Madayikonam (2 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Madayikonam (6 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 5 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Porathissery (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Paper cartan,Polymers pvc pumps,Furniture


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Mukundapuram tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


