{{Infobox settlement
| name=Poyya (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kodungallur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=9.44
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=10478
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1109
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1094
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=88.18%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627883
| footnotes=
}}

== Poyya (CT) (627883) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Poyya (CT) is a town in the [[Kodungallur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 9.44 sq. km. and harbouring 2696 households with total population of 10478 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 40 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 276 km. Male population is 5003 and female population is 5475. Scheduled Caste population is 1266 and Scheduled Tribes population is 21. Census Location Code of the town is 627883<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 40 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 40 km. Railway station is at Chalakudy at a distance of 20 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 9240 (88.18%)
* Literate male population: 4464 (89.23%)
* Literate female population: 4776 (87.23%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Chalakudy (20 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 9 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 11 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 9 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 20 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 20 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 20 km .
There is 1 Other medical amenities in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kodungallur (13 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (40 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (35 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (40 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kuruvilassery (9 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Kallettumkara (25 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Annamanada (12 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Chalakudy (20 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Irinjalakuda (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kodungallur (9 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Irinjalakuda (28 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Mala (5 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Poyya (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==


There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 4 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kodungallur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


