{{Infobox settlement
| name=Pudussery West (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Palakkad
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Palakkad
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=20.62
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=20140
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=976
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Palakkad (m)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1024
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=80.27%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627651
| footnotes=
}}

== Pudussery West (CT) (627651) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Pudussery West (CT) is a town in the [[Palakkad]] taluka of [[Palakkad]] district with an area of 20.62 sq. km. and harbouring 5016 households with total population of 20140 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Palakkad]] is at a distance of 6 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 377 km. Male population is 9948 and female population is 10192. Scheduled Caste population is 3498 and Scheduled Tribes population is 68. Census Location Code of the town is 627651<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Palakkad (m) at a distance of 6 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Coimbatore(m corp. )  at a distance of 85 km. Railway station is at Palakkad at a distance of 6 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2500 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 38
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 16166 (80.27%)
* Literate male population: 8332 (83.76%)
* Literate female population: 7834 (76.86%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 2000 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Palakkad (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 15 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 5 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
There is 1 Other medical amenities in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Pudussery central (3 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Palakkad (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (34 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (35 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (34 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Alathur (22 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Hemambikanagar  (3 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Vaniyamkulam- ii  (6 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Palakkad (6 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Palakkad  (6 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Palakkad  (6 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Palakkad (6 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Palakkad (3 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Palakkad (11 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Palakkad (5 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Pudussery central  (5 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pudussery West (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Fluid control valves,Textile materials


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Palakkad]]
[[Categories:Towns in Palakkad tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Palakkad district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


