{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627650
|native_name=Pudussery Central (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Palakkad 
|subdivision_name2=Palakkad
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Palakkad]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Palakkad ]]
|Nearest city=[[Palakkad (m)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=22.95
|elevation_m=
|population_total=16629
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=724
|population_blank1=8469
|population_blank2=8160
|female_per_1000_male=963
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Pudussery Central (CT) (627650) ==

Pudussery Central (CT) is a town in the [[Palakkad ]] taluka of [[Palakkad]] district with an area of 22.95 sq. km. and harbouring 4062 households with total population of 16629 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Palakkad]] is at a distance of 10 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 384 km. Male population is 8469 and female population is 8160. Scheduled Caste population is 1052 and Scheduled Tribes population is 161. Census Location Code of the town is 627650<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Palakkad (m) at a distance of 10 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Coimbatore(m corp. )  at a distance of 50 km. Railway station is at Palakkad at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2500 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 38
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 12911
* Literate male population: 7001 (82.67%)
* Literate female population: 5910 (72.43%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 300 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Palakkad (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 12 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 8 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 8 km .
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 4 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 21 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (35 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (32 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (35 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Hemambikanagar  (4 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Hemambikanagar  (3 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Vaniyamkulam- ii  (8 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Palakkad (10 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Palakkad  (10 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Palakkad  (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Palakkad (10 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Puduppariyaram (8 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Palakkad (5 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Palakkad (12 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Palakkad (6 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pudussery Central (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Thread,Carbide,Match box


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Palakkad]]
[[Categories:Palakkad ]]
[[Categories:Palakkad district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


