{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627928
|native_name=Pullur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Mukundapuram
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Mukundapuram]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=7.82
|elevation_m=
|population_total=12656
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1618
|population_blank1=5923
|population_blank2=6733
|female_per_1000_male=1136
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Pullur (CT) (627928) ==

Pullur (CT) is a town in the [[Mukundapuram]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 7.82 sq. km. and harbouring 3148 households with total population of 12656 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 28 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 280 km. Male population is 5923 and female population is 6733. Scheduled Caste population is 2146 and Scheduled Tribes population is 12. Census Location Code of the town is 627928<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 28 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 70 km. Railway station is at Irinjalakuda at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 11074
* Literate male population: 5241 (88.49%)
* Literate female population: 5833 (86.63%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 750 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 7 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 6 km .
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 24 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 34 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 1 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 24 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Middle School is at Manavalassery  (1 km) .
The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at Manavalassery  (1 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Edathirinji  (1 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (28 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (22 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (28 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kodakara (8 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kallettumkara (4 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Irinjalakuda (5 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Public Library is at Iringalakuda (5 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pullur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==


There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Mukundapuram]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


