{{Infobox settlement
| name=Punalur (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kollam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Pathanapuram
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=34.35
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=46702
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1359
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1119
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803307
| footnotes=
}}

== Punalur (M) (803307) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Punalur (M) is a town in the [[Pathanapuram]] taluka of [[Kollam]] district with an area of 34.35 sq. km. and harbouring 12606 households with total population of 46702 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kollam]] is at a distance of 46 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 74 km. Male population is 22039 and female population is 24663. Scheduled Caste population is 4054 and Scheduled Tribes population is 356. Census Location Code of the town is 803307<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 46 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 74 km. Railway station is at Punalur at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2790 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1800 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
There are 6 Maternity Homes in the town.
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 23 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 14 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 8 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 21 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 18 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 16 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 18 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 20 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 31 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 18 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 20 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (74 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (74 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kulasekharapuram (22 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kottarakkara  (4 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kollam (36 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.There are 3 private Polytechnics in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Valakam (4 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kollam (7 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 3 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kottarakkara  (4 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 9 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Public Librarys in the town.There are 3 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Punalur (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Hollow bricks,Furniture,Pvc pipes


== Market and Banking ==
There are 5 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 6 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There are 4 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 4 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Pathanapuram tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kollam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


