{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627793
|native_name=Punnayurkulam (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Chavakkad
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Chavakkad]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=9.04
|elevation_m=
|population_total=14221
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1573
|population_blank1=6440
|population_blank2=7781
|female_per_1000_male=1208
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Punnayurkulam (CT) (627793) ==

Punnayurkulam (CT) is a town in the [[Chavakkad]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 9.04 sq. km. and harbouring 3068 households with total population of 14221 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 31 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 331 km. Male population is 6440 and female population is 7781. Scheduled Caste population is 788 and Scheduled Tribes population is 22. Census Location Code of the town is 627793<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 31 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 97 km. Railway station is at Guruvayoor at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2800 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 37
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 11647
* Literate male population: 5271 (81.85%)
* Literate female population: 6376 (81.94%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 500 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Guruvayoor (15 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 6 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 2 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 31 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 31 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 31 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 31 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 31 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 15 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
There are 3 government Degree College of Arts and Commerces in the town. 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Ponnani (15 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (31 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (32 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (31 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (31 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (31 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kunnamkulam (6 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Guruvayoor (3 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kunnamkulam (4 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (31 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kadikad (2 km) .
 
 
The nearest government stadium is at Iringaprom (12 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Punnayurkulam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Wooden  furniture,Coconut oil,Pappad


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Chavakkad]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


