{{Infobox settlement
| name=Punnayur (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Chavakkad
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=9.35
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=19387
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2073
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1128
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=81.79%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627795
| footnotes=
}}

== Punnayur (CT) (627795) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Punnayur (CT) is a town in the [[Chavakkad]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 9.35 sq. km. and harbouring 3789 households with total population of 19387 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 25 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 325 km. Male population is 9108 and female population is 10279. Scheduled Caste population is 1054 and Scheduled Tribes population is 29. Census Location Code of the town is 627795<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 25 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 105 km. Railway station is at Guruvayoor at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2800 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 37
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 15856 (81.79%)
* Literate male population: 7464 (81.95%)
* Literate female population: 8392 (81.64%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 250 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Guruvayoor (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 12 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 8 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 38 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 1 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Vadakkekad (3 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Guruvayoor (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (25 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (33 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (25 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (25 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kunnamkulam (15 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kunnamkulam (16 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Guruvayoor (8 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kunnamkulam (10 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (25 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Pookode (5 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Guruvayoor (11 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Guruvayoor (11 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Iringaprom (8 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Guruvayoor (11 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Guruvayoor (4 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Vylathur (6 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Punnayur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Copra,Coconut oil,Limestone


== Market and Banking ==


There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Chavakkad tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


