{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627840
|native_name=Puranattukara (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Thrissur
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Thrissur]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=6.33
|elevation_m=
|population_total=10655
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1683
|population_blank1=5092
|population_blank2=5563
|female_per_1000_male=1092
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Puranattukara (CT) (627840) ==

Puranattukara (CT) is a town in the [[Thrissur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 6.33 sq. km. and harbouring 2582 households with total population of 10655 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 6 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 297 km. Male population is 5092 and female population is 5563. Scheduled Caste population is 1387 and Scheduled Tribes population is 48. Census Location Code of the town is 627840<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 6 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 85 km. Railway station is at Thrissur at a distance of 6 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 26


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 9473
* Literate male population: 4561 (89.57%)
* Literate female population: 4912 (88.3%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 650 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrissur (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 13 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 2 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 15 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 2 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.

There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (18 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Puzhakkal (2 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Chittilappilly (2 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (6 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.There are 2 private Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (6 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Puzhakkal (2 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Thrissur (6 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Public Library is at Puzhakkal (2 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Puranattukara (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Powerloom,Sweets,Hollowbricks


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


