{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627130
|native_name=Puthur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kasaragod
|subdivision_name2=Kasaragod
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kasaragod]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kasaragod]]
|Nearest city=[[Mangalore(m corp. + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=8.4
|elevation_m=
|population_total=14271
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1698
|population_blank1=6749
|population_blank2=7522
|female_per_1000_male=1114
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Puthur (CT) (627130) ==

Puthur (CT) is a town in the [[Kasaragod]] taluka of [[Kasaragod]] district with an area of 8.4 sq. km. and harbouring 2659 households with total population of 14271 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kasaragod]] is at a distance of 4 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 653 km. Male population is 6749 and female population is 7522. Scheduled Caste population is 780 and Scheduled Tribes population is 25. Census Location Code of the town is 627130<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Mangalore(m corp. + og) at a distance of 48 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 196 km. Railway station is at Kasaragod at a distance of 4 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3401 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 31


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 10969
* Literate male population: 5363 (79.46%)
* Literate female population: 5606 (74.53%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kasaragod (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There are 2 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 4 km .
There is 1 Other medical amenities in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kasaragod (4 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (30 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (30 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Mangalore (48 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kasaragod (7 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kudlu (28 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kasaragod (7 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kasaragod (7 km) .
There is 1 government other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kasaragod (7 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kasaragod (7 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Chittarikkal (45 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kasaragod (12 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kasaragod (7 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Public Library is at Mogral (2 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Puthur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom,Machinary items,Beedi


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Kasaragod district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


