{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627963
|native_name=Puthencruz (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kunnathunad
|subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Ernakulam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kunnathunad]]
|Nearest city=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=28.1
|elevation_m=
|population_total=22378
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=796
|population_blank1=11014
|population_blank2=11364
|female_per_1000_male=1031
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Puthencruz (CT) (627963) ==

Puthencruz (CT) is a town in the [[Kunnathunad]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 28.1 sq. km. and harbouring 5638 households with total population of 22378 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 15 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 225 km. Male population is 11014 and female population is 11364. Scheduled Caste population is 4733 and Scheduled Tribes population is 173. Census Location Code of the town is 627963<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 20 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 20 km. Railway station is at Thrippunithura at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3656 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 30
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 19410
* Literate male population: 9733 (88.37%)
* Literate female population: 9677 (85.15%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrippunithura (13 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
There are 2 Alternative Medicine hospitals in the town.
There are 5 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There are 7 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 22 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 22 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalady (6 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (18 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kalamassery (12 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kochi (6 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalamassery (12 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Aluva (5 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Aluva (11 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Perumbavoor (14 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Aluva (4 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Aluva (10 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Angamaly  (2 km) .
There are 3 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 8 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Puthencruz (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Petroleum,Fertilizers and chemicals,Hose


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 3 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Kunnathunad]]
[[Categories:Ernakulam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


