{{Infobox settlement
| name=Puthukkad (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Mukundapuram
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=6.41
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=12615
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1968
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1070
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=87.58%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627922
| footnotes=
}}

== Puthukkad (CT) (627922) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Puthukkad (CT) is a town in the [[Mukundapuram]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 6.41 sq. km. and harbouring 3115 households with total population of 12615 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 13 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 285 km. Male population is 6094 and female population is 6521. Scheduled Caste population is 1705 and Scheduled Tribes population is 0. Census Location Code of the town is 627922<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 13 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 66 km. Railway station is at Puthukkad at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 11048 (87.58%)
* Literate male population: 5361 (87.97%)
* Literate female population: 5687 (87.21%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 150 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrissur (13 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 13 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 20 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 20 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 20 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 20 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There are 22 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 18 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (13 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (22 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (13 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (13 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (13 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Thrissur (13 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrissur (13 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Irinjalakuda (9 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thrissur (13 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (13 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Irinjalakuda (20 km) .
There are 2 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Puthukkad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Tile,Candle


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Mukundapuram tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


