{{Infobox settlement
| name=Puthuppally (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kottayam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kottayam
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=22.41
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=29635
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1322
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1071
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=89.46%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628179
| footnotes=
}}

== Puthuppally (CT) (628179) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Puthuppally (CT) is a town in the [[Kottayam]] taluka of [[Kottayam]] district with an area of 22.41 sq. km. and harbouring 7652 households with total population of 29635 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kottayam]] is at a distance of 8 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 158 km. Male population is 14304 and female population is 15331. Scheduled Caste population is 1301 and Scheduled Tribes population is 250. Census Location Code of the town is 628179<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 38 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 57 km. Railway station is at Kottayam at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2469 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 26510 (89.46%)
* Literate male population: 12757 (89.18%)
* Literate female population: 13753 (89.71%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 480 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kottayam (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 15 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 8 km .
There are 9 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 7 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 7 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottayam (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (8 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Arpookara (8 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Pampady (8 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kottayam (8 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kottayam  (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kottayam (8 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Panachikkad  (6 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kottayam (8 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kottayam (8 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 6 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Puthuppally (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rubber products,Banana chips,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There are 4 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kottayam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kottayam tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kottayam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


