{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627983
|native_name=Puthenvelikkara (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Paravur
|subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Ernakulam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Paravur]]
|Nearest city=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=25.51
|elevation_m=
|population_total=33372
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1308
|population_blank1=16251
|population_blank2=17121
|female_per_1000_male=1053
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Puthenvelikkara (CT) (627983) ==

Puthenvelikkara (CT) is a town in the [[Paravur]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 25.51 sq. km. and harbouring 8379 households with total population of 33372 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 35 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 250 km. Male population is 16251 and female population is 17121. Scheduled Caste population is 3789 and Scheduled Tribes population is 50. Census Location Code of the town is 627983<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 35 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 35 km. Railway station is at Aluva at a distance of 24 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3053 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 28746
* Literate male population: 14136 (86.99%)
* Literate female population: 14610 (85.33%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 180 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Paravur (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 11 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 7 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (35 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (12 km) .
 
There are 2 government Medical Colleges in the town.There is 1 private Medical College in the town.The nearest private Medical College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Paravur (6 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Paravur (20 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalamassery (35 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Paravur (6 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kochi (16 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kochi (16 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 2 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Ernakulam (35 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Puthenvelikkara (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Small scale industry products,Curry powder,Bricks


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Paravur]]
[[Categories:Ernakulam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


