{{Infobox settlement
| name=Puthunagaram (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Palakkad
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Chittur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=8.1
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=17892
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2208
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Palakkad (m)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1015
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=78.17%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627683
| footnotes=
}}

== Puthunagaram (CT) (627683) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Puthunagaram (CT) is a town in the [[Chittur]] taluka of [[Palakkad]] district with an area of 8.1 sq. km. and harbouring 3844 households with total population of 17892 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Palakkad]] is at a distance of 20 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 370 km. Male population is 8879 and female population is 9013. Scheduled Caste population is 2695 and Scheduled Tribes population is 25. Census Location Code of the town is 627683<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Palakkad (m) at a distance of 20 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Coimbatore(m corp. )  at a distance of 66 km. Railway station is at Palakkad at a distance of 25 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2380 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 38
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 13987 (78.17%)
* Literate male population: 7331 (82.57%)
* Literate female population: 6656 (73.85%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 325 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Chittur (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 6 km .
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 14 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Middle School is at Chittur (10 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Chittur (10 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Chittur (10 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Koduvayur  (3 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (38 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (30 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (38 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Palakkad (12 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Marutharode (18 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Vaniyamkulam- ii  (8 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Chittur (10 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Palakkad (20 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Palakkad  (20 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Palakkad (20 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Palakkad (20 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Palakkad (6 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Chittur (8 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Chittur (6 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Chittur (4 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Tirur (4 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Puthunagaram (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil,Rice


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.






[[Categories:Palakkad]]
[[Categories:Towns in Chittur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Palakkad district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


