{{Infobox settlement
| name=Puthur (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Thrissur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=15.44
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=17430
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1128
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1025
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=85.25%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627853
| footnotes=
}}

== Puthur (CT) (627853) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Puthur (CT) is a town in the [[Thrissur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 15.44 sq. km. and harbouring 4295 households with total population of 17430 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 305 km. Male population is 8605 and female population is 8825. Scheduled Caste population is 1892 and Scheduled Tribes population is 108. Census Location Code of the town is 627853<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 12 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 75 km. Railway station is at Thrissur at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2765 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 19


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 14859 (85.25%)
* Literate male population: 7491 (87.05%)
* Literate female population: 7368 (83.49%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrissur (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 10 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 10 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Manakkody (1 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (22 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (12 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (12 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Thrissur (10 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Manalur (10 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Puthur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Concrete bricks,Foot wears,Rubber products


== Market and Banking ==


There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


