{{Infobox settlement
| name=Puthuppariyaram (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Palakkad
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Palakkad
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=5.9
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=30895
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=5236
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Palakkad (m)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1060
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=83.87%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627648
| footnotes=
}}

== Puthuppariyaram (CT) (627648) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Puthuppariyaram (CT) is a town in the [[Palakkad]] taluka of [[Palakkad]] district with an area of 5.9 sq. km. and harbouring 7272 households with total population of 30895 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Palakkad]] is at a distance of 7 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 375 km. Male population is 14995 and female population is 15900. Scheduled Caste population is 3618 and Scheduled Tribes population is 377. Census Location Code of the town is 627648<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Palakkad (m) at a distance of 7 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Coimbatore(m corp. )  at a distance of 46 km. Railway station is at Palakkad junction at a distance of 2 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2380 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 38
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 31


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 25911 (83.87%)
* Literate male population: 12951 (86.37%)
* Literate female population: 12960 (81.51%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1000 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Palakkad (7 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There are 2 Alternative Medicine hospitals in the town.
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 7 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There are 7 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 2 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 22 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 5 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Palakkad (7 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (25 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (40 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (25 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Akathethara (5 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Hemambikanagar  (4 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Vaniyamkulam- ii  (7 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Palakkad (7 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Palakkad  (7 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Palakkad  (7 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Palakkad (7 km) .
There is 1 government Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Palakkad (18 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Palakkad (7 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Palakkad (7 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Puthuppariyaram (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance):  electrical and allied engineering products, autometor and steel structures,Electrical switch items


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 3 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:Palakkad]]
[[Categories:Towns in Palakkad tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Palakkad district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


