{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627839
|native_name=Puzhakkal (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Thrissur
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Thrissur]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=4.83
|elevation_m=
|population_total=8609
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1782
|population_blank1=4078
|population_blank2=4531
|female_per_1000_male=1111
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Puzhakkal (CT) (627839) ==

Puzhakkal (CT) is a town in the [[Thrissur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 4.83 sq. km. and harbouring 2109 households with total population of 8609 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 6 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 297 km. Male population is 4078 and female population is 4531. Scheduled Caste population is 981 and Scheduled Tribes population is 17. Census Location Code of the town is 627839<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 6 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 85 km. Railway station is at Mulamkunnathukavu at a distance of 7 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 26


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 7622
* Literate male population: 3625 (88.89%)
* Literate female population: 3997 (88.21%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 650 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrissur (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 15 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 11 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 1 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 2 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 7 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at Puranattukara (2 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Puranattukara (2 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (16 km) .
 
There is 1 private Medical College in the town.The nearest private Medical College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Chittilappilly (2 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (6 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.There are 2 private Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (6 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (6 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (6 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Thrissur (6 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Puzhakkal (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Powerloom cloth,Hollow bricks,Pottery clay


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


