{{Infobox settlement
| name=Quilandy (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Quilandy
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=29.05
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=71873
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2474
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1137
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803266
| footnotes=
}}

== Quilandy (M) (803266) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Quilandy (M) is a town in the [[Quilandy]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 29.05 sq. km. and harbouring 16197 households with total population of 71873 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 47 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 465 km. Male population is 33620 and female population is 38253. Scheduled Caste population is 4550 and Scheduled Tribes population is 80. Census Location Code of the town is 803266<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (Population 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 47 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 25 km. Railway station is at Quilandy at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2769 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 4 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 24 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 24 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 24 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 24 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 12 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 7 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 56 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 10 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 22 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 18 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (25 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (29 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (47 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kozhikode (25 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kunnamangalam (34 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Vadakara (20 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Vadakara (10 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Palayad (4 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Vadakara (10 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kozhikode (24 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (24 km) .
There are 2 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Quilandy (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir,Pottery items


== Market and Banking ==
There are 8 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Towns in Quilandy tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


