{{Infobox settlement
| name=Ramanattukara (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kozhikode
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=11.71
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=35937
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=3068
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1044
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=84.95%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627435
| footnotes=
}}

== Ramanattukara (CT) (627435) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Ramanattukara (CT) is a town in the [[Kozhikode]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 11.71 sq. km. and harbouring 7755 households with total population of 35937 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 20 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 409 km. Male population is 17574 and female population is 18363. Scheduled Caste population is 3605 and Scheduled Tribes population is 38. Census Location Code of the town is 627435<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 20 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 20 km. Railway station is at Feroke at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2704 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 30529 (84.95%)
* Literate male population: 15081 (85.81%)
* Literate female population: 15448 (84.13%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 300 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kozhikode (20 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 13 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 5 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 15 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 18 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 15 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 18 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 11 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (18 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (20 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kozhikode (20 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kozhikode (20 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kozhikode (20 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 2 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Ramanattukara (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Pvs foot wears,Plywood,Carton 


== Market and Banking ==
There are 4 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


