{{Infobox settlement
| name=Shiriya (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kasaragod
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kasaragod
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=4
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=5277
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1319
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Mangalore(m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1196
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=73.26%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627127
| footnotes=
}}

== Shiriya (CT) (627127) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Shiriya (CT) is a town in the [[Kasaragod]] taluka of [[Kasaragod]] district with an area of 4 sq. km. and harbouring 974 households with total population of 5277 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kasaragod]] is at a distance of 22 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 554 km. Male population is 2403 and female population is 2874. Scheduled Caste population is 198 and Scheduled Tribes population is 24. Census Location Code of the town is 627127<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (Population 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Mangalore(m corp. + og) at a distance of 35 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 212 km. Railway station is at Kumbala at a distance of 4 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3401 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 3866 (73.26%)
* Literate male population: 1877 (78.11%)
* Literate female population: 1989 (69.21%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kasaragod (22 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 8 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 15 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 24 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 6 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 24 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 4 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Middle School is at Mangalpady (6 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Mangalpady (6 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Mangalpady (6 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kasaragod (22 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (32 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (32 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Mangalore (35 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kasaragod (22 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kasaragod (22 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kudlu (39 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kasaragod (22 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kasaragod (22 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kasaragod (22 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kasaragod (22 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kasaragod (22 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Chittarikkal (46 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Hosabettu (6 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kasaragod  (22 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Uppala (4 km) .
The nearest private Public Library is at Mogral (5 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Shiriya (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Copra


== Market and Banking ==







[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kasaragod tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kasaragod district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


