{{Infobox settlement
| name=Shiribagilu (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kasaragod
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kasaragod
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=5.5
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=7630
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1387
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Mangalore(m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1030
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=78.05%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627131
| footnotes=
}}

== Shiribagilu (CT) (627131) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Shiribagilu (CT) is a town in the [[Kasaragod]] taluka of [[Kasaragod]] district with an area of 5.5 sq. km. and harbouring 1449 households with total population of 7630 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kasaragod]] is at a distance of 5 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 660 km. Male population is 3757 and female population is 3873. Scheduled Caste population is 314 and Scheduled Tribes population is 89. Census Location Code of the town is 627131<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (Population 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Mangalore(m corp. + og) at a distance of 58 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 192 km. Railway station is at Kasaragod at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3401 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 5955 (78.05%)
* Literate male population: 3045 (81.05%)
* Literate female population: 2910 (75.14%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kasaragod (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 12 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 13 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 5 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 7 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Middle School is at Pathur (4 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Pathur (4 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Pathur (4 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kasaragod (5 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (28 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (28 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Mangalore (58 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kasaragod (5 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kasaragod (7 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kudlu (28 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kasaragod (7 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Puthur  (5 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kasaragod (7 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kasaragod (7 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Chittarikkal (42 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kasaragod (12 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kasaragod (7 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Puthur  (4 km) .
The nearest private Public Library is at Mogral (6 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Shiribagilu (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Beedi,Handloom


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kasaragod tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kasaragod district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


