{{Infobox settlement
| name=Shoranur (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Palakkad
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Ottappalam
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=32.28
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=43533
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1348
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Palakkad (m)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1097
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803273
| footnotes=
}}

== Shoranur (M) (803273) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Shoranur (M) is a town in the [[Ottappalam]] taluka of [[Palakkad]] district with an area of 32.28 sq. km. and harbouring 10420 households with total population of 43533 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Palakkad]] is at a distance of 47 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 329 km. Male population is 20757 and female population is 22776. Scheduled Caste population is 7423 and Scheduled Tribes population is 88. Census Location Code of the town is 803273<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Palakkad (m) at a distance of 47 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Coimbatore(m corp. )  at a distance of 95 km. Railway station is at Shoranur at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2545.14 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32.3
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22.9


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 3300 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There are 2 Allopathic hospital facilitys in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There are 4 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 4 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There are 4 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 27 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 15 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 6 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 31 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 16 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 7 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 9 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.There are 3 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (32 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (45 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (32 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There are 7 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Koonathara (9 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Palakkad  (47 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 2 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Ottappalam (15 km) .
There are 4 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 10 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.There are 8 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Shoranur (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Agricultural equipments,Cutleries,Building materials  and clay pots


== Market and Banking ==
There are 4 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 7 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 4 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Palakkad]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ottappalam tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Palakkad district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


