{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627174
|native_name=South Thrikkaripur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Hosdurg
|subdivision_name2=Kasaragod
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kasaragod]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Hosdurg]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=18.16
|elevation_m=
|population_total=22991
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1266
|population_blank1=10333
|population_blank2=12658
|female_per_1000_male=1225
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== South Thrikkaripur (CT) (627174) ==

South Thrikkaripur (CT) is a town in the [[Hosdurg]] taluka of [[Kasaragod]] district with an area of 18.16 sq. km. and harbouring 4578 households with total population of 22991 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kasaragod]] is at a distance of 50 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 560 km. Male population is 10333 and female population is 12658. Scheduled Caste population is 1528 and Scheduled Tribes population is 49. Census Location Code of the town is 627174<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 15 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 135 km. Railway station is at North thrikkaripur at a distance of 4 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3450 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 20


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 19144
* Literate male population: 8623 (83.45%)
* Literate female population: 10521 (83.12%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is  kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrikkaripur (15 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 8 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 3 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 3 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 24 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 12 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 7 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Cheruvathur (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (14 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (14 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Taliparamba (20 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Taliparamba  (20 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at North thrikkaripur (3 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at North thrikkaripur  (4 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kanhangad (15 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kanhangad (15 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kanhangad (15 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kadannappalli (30 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at North thrikkaripur (8 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at North thrikkarippur (4 km) .
There are 3 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
South Thrikkaripur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Khadi  handloom,Metal products,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Hosdurg]]
[[Categories:Kasaragod district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


