{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628514
|native_name=Sreekaryam (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Thiruvananthapuram 
|subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thiruvananthapuram]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Thiruvananthapuram ]]
|Nearest city=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=8.87
|elevation_m=
|population_total=23528
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2652
|population_blank1=11467
|population_blank2=12061
|female_per_1000_male=1051
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Sreekaryam (CT) (628514) ==

Sreekaryam (CT) is a town in the [[Thiruvananthapuram ]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 8.87 sq. km. and harbouring 6133 households with total population of 23528 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 10 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 10 km. Male population is 11467 and female population is 12061. Scheduled Caste population is 2366 and Scheduled Tribes population is 73. Census Location Code of the town is 628514<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 10 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 10 km. Railway station is at Kazhakkoottam at a distance of 7 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1828 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 20825
* Literate male population: 10222 (89.14%)
* Literate female population: 10603 (87.91%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 250 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 3 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 4 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There are 2 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
There is 1 government Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
There are 2 government Working Women's Hostels in the town.There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Thiruvananthapuarm (14 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thiruvananthapuram (5 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Thiruvananthapuram (6 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Sreekaryam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Holow bricks,Steel products


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram ]]
[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


