{{Infobox settlement
| name=Taliparamba (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Taliparamba
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=43.08
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=72465
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1682
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1145
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803258
| footnotes=
}}

== Taliparamba (M) (803258) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Taliparamba (M) is a town in the [[Taliparamba]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 43.08 sq. km. and harbouring 15874 households with total population of 72465 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 23 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 545 km. Male population is 33779 and female population is 38686. Scheduled Caste population is 2814 and Scheduled Tribes population is 152. Census Location Code of the town is 803258<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (Population 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 50 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 100 km. Railway station is at Kannur at a distance of 22 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2995 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1000 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 4 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 6 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There are 4 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
There are 3 Maternity Homes in the town.
There are 3 T.B. clinics in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 2 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
There is 1 Mobile health clinic in the town.
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 16 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 9 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 44 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 6 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 18 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 9 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (24 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (24 km) .
 
There is 1 private Medical College in the town.The nearest private Medical College is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Payyannur  (9 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Cherukunnu  (14 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Pattuvam (3 km) .
There are 2 government stadiums in the town.There is 1 private stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 5 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.There are 10 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Taliparamba (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom,Bread,Curry powder


== Market and Banking ==
There are 10 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 7 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 5 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Taliparamba tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


