{{Infobox settlement
| name=Talikkulam (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Chavakkad
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=10.89
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=25507
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2342
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1215
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=83.65%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627811
| footnotes=
}}

== Talikkulam (CT) (627811) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Talikkulam (CT) is a town in the [[Chavakkad]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 10.89 sq. km. and harbouring 6306 households with total population of 25507 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 22 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 317 km. Male population is 11512 and female population is 13995. Scheduled Caste population is 1247 and Scheduled Tribes population is 30. Census Location Code of the town is 627811<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 22 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 102 km. Railway station is at Guruvayoor at a distance of 17 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2770 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 27


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 21337 (83.65%)
* Literate male population: 9638 (83.72%)
* Literate female population: 11699 (83.59%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 60 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Guruvayoor (18 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 18 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 22 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 22 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 22 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 22 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 6 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 22 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 7 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 7 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 7 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 10 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (22 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (30 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (22 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (22 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (22 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Nattika (6 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Vadanappally  (3 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Manalur (6 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (22 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Guruvayoor (18 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Guruvayoor (1 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (22 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Talikkulam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil,Copra,Coir products


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Chavakkad tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


