{{Infobox settlement
| name=Tanalur (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Malappuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Tirur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=14.65
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=47976
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=3274
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1109
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=81.23%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627530
| footnotes=
}}

== Tanalur (CT) (627530) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Tanalur (CT) is a town in the [[Tirur]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 14.65 sq. km. and harbouring 8844 households with total population of 47976 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 33 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 320 km. Male population is 22743 and female population is 25233. Scheduled Caste population is 1489 and Scheduled Tribes population is 97. Census Location Code of the town is 627530<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 33 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 40 km. Railway station is at Tanur at a distance of 6 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2769 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 40
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 38970 (81.23%)
* Literate male population: 18644 (81.98%)
* Literate female population: 20326 (80.55%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Tirur (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 6 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 5 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 7 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 8 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 4 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Tirur (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (35 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (25 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (40 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kuttippuram (35 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Malappuram (33 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Tirur (6 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Tanur (5 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Parappanangadi (14 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Malappuram (33 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Tirurangadi (20 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Tirur (6 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (40 km) .
There are 2 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Tanur (5 km) .
There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Tanalur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom clothes and readymade clothes,Hollow bricks and clay tiles,Wooden and steel furniture


== Market and Banking ==


There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Tirur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Malappuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


