{{Infobox settlement
| name=Thaikkad (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Chavakkad
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=3.73
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=6594
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1767
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1158
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=85.96%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627803
| footnotes=
}}

== Thaikkad (CT) (627803) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Thaikkad (CT) is a town in the [[Chavakkad]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 3.73 sq. km. and harbouring 1539 households with total population of 6594 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 27 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 322 km. Male population is 3055 and female population is 3539. Scheduled Caste population is 153 and Scheduled Tribes population is 13. Census Location Code of the town is 627803<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (Population 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 27 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 95 km. Railway station is at Guruvayoor at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2757 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 5668 (85.96%)
* Literate male population: 2608 (85.37%)
* Literate female population: 3060 (86.47%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 210 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Guruvayoor (1 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 2 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 11 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 22 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 9 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Guruvayoor (1 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (27 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (36 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (27 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Mundur (15 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (27 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kunnamkulam (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Guruvayoor (3 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kunnamkulam (10 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (27 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Guruvayoor (3 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Guruvayoor (3 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (27 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Thaikkad (6 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Thaikkad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Copra,Coconut oil,Beedi


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.





[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Chavakkad tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


