{{Infobox settlement
| name=Thalakkulathur (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kozhikode
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=17.43
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=29388
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1686
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1136
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=86.3%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627423
| footnotes=
}}

== Thalakkulathur (CT) (627423) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Thalakkulathur (CT) is a town in the [[Kozhikode]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 17.43 sq. km. and harbouring 6897 households with total population of 29388 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 16 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 434 km. Male population is 13753 and female population is 15635. Scheduled Caste population is 2517 and Scheduled Tribes population is 25. Census Location Code of the town is 627423<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 16 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 16 km. Railway station is at Kozhikode at a distance of 16 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2704 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 25361 (86.3%)
* Literate male population: 12024 (87.43%)
* Literate female population: 13337 (85.3%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 75 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kozhikode (16 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 17 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 16 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 9 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Chelannur (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (16 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (12 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (16 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at West hill (5 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kozhikode (5 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kozhikode (16 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Karaparamba (8 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Chelannur (6 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kozhikode (16 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 government Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Chevayoor (12 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (8 km) .
There are 2 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Cinema Theatre is at Kozhikode (4 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Chelannur  (4 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Thalakkulathur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Beedi,Copra,Rubber products


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


