{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627869
|native_name=Thanniyam (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Thrissur
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Thrissur]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=5.3
|elevation_m=
|population_total=9743
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1838
|population_blank1=4430
|population_blank2=5313
|female_per_1000_male=1199
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Thanniyam (CT) (627869) ==

Thanniyam (CT) is a town in the [[Thrissur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 5.3 sq. km. and harbouring 2465 households with total population of 9743 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 22 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 295 km. Male population is 4430 and female population is 5313. Scheduled Caste population is 1543 and Scheduled Tribes population is 11. Census Location Code of the town is 627869<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 22 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 65 km. Railway station is at Thrissur at a distance of 22 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 27


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 8578
* Literate male population: 3901 (88.06%)
* Literate female population: 4677 (88.03%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 900 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrissur (22 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 13 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 10 km .
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 22 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 22 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 3 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 22 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Nattika (3 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (22 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (22 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (22 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (22 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (22 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Nattika (2 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Anthicad (5 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Manalur (12 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Oleri (17 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kizhakkummuri (3 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (22 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Oleri (16 km) .
The nearest private stadium is at Irinjalakuda (22 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kizhakkummuri (3 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Kizhakkummuri (3 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Thanniyam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil,Rice,Areacanut


== Market and Banking ==

There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


