{{Infobox settlement
| name=Thanneermukkam (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Cherthala
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=23.91
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=31525
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1318
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1053
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=88.21%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628222
| footnotes=
}}

== Thanneermukkam (CT) (628222) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Thanneermukkam (CT) is a town in the [[Cherthala]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 23.91 sq. km. and harbouring 7908 households with total population of 31525 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 32 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 178 km. Male population is 15349 and female population is 16176. Scheduled Caste population is 1184 and Scheduled Tribes population is 218. Census Location Code of the town is 628222<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 32 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 57 km. Railway station is at Cherthala at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1936 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 27808 (88.21%)
* Literate male population: 13743 (89.54%)
* Literate female population: 14065 (86.95%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Cherthala (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 15 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 15 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 5 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 14 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Cherthala (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (57 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (18 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (24 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kokkothamangalam (12 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Cherthala (10 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kokothamangalam (10 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Cherthala (10 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Alappuzha  (32 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Alappuzha (8 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Cherthala (10 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kokkothamangalam (8 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Thanneermukkam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Towns in Cherthala tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Alappuzha district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


