{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627826
|native_name=Thangalur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Thrissur
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Thrissur]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=5.11
|elevation_m=
|population_total=4587
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=897
|population_blank1=2248
|population_blank2=2339
|female_per_1000_male=1040
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Thangalur (CT) (627826) ==

Thangalur (CT) is a town in the [[Thrissur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 5.11 sq. km. and harbouring 1149 households with total population of 4587 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 310 km. Male population is 2248 and female population is 2339. Scheduled Caste population is 931 and Scheduled Tribes population is 11. Census Location Code of the town is 627826<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class VI (population_total < 5,000).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 12 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 90 km. Railway station is at Thrissur at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2801 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 26


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 3936
* Literate male population: 1901 (84.56%)
* Literate female population: 2035 (87.0%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 400 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrissur (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 2 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 2 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 2 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 2 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 3 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 9 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at Avanur (1 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Avanur (1 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (5 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (12 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (12 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Peringandoor (3 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Thrissur (13 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (13 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Thrissur (9 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Thrissur (13 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Thangalur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rubber products,Wooden furniture,Flour


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


