{{Infobox settlement
| name=Thazhakara (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Mavelikkara
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=13.37
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=14596
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1091
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1172
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=89.87%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628289
| footnotes=
}}

== Thazhakara (CT) (628289) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Thazhakara (CT) is a town in the [[Mavelikkara]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 13.37 sq. km. and harbouring 4023 households with total population of 14596 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 48 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 123 km. Male population is 6719 and female population is 7877. Scheduled Caste population is 2475 and Scheduled Tribes population is 25. Census Location Code of the town is 628289<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 48 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 90 km. Railway station is at Mavelikkara at a distance of 4 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1936 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 13118 (89.87%)
* Literate male population: 6042 (89.92%)
* Literate female population: 7076 (89.83%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 60 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Mavelikkara (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 13 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 14 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 4 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 21 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 8 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Mavelikkara (4 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (90 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (35 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (23 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Chengannur (10 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Pandalam (16 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Mavelikkara (4 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Mavelikkara (4 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kayamkulam (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Mavelikkara  (4 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Mavelikkara (4 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Mavelikkara (4 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Mavelikkara (4 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Thazhakara (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Bricks


== Market and Banking ==

There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Towns in Mavelikkara tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Alappuzha district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


