{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628448
|native_name=Thazhuthala (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kollam
|subdivision_name2=Kollam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kollam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kollam]]
|Nearest city=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=11.48
|elevation_m=
|population_total=37517
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=3268
|population_blank1=17956
|population_blank2=19561
|female_per_1000_male=1089
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Thazhuthala (CT) (628448) ==

Thazhuthala (CT) is a town in the [[Kollam]] taluka of [[Kollam]] district with an area of 11.48 sq. km. and harbouring 8788 households with total population of 37517 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kollam]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 65 km. Male population is 17956 and female population is 19561. Scheduled Caste population is 2537 and Scheduled Tribes population is 48. Census Location Code of the town is 628448<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 12 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 65 km. Railway station is at Kollam at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2790 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 5832
* Literate male population: 2810 (15.65%)
* Literate female population: 3022 (15.45%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 148 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kollam (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 10 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 4 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 4 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 2 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 26 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 19 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 8 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
There is 1 government Degree College of Science only in the town. 
There is 1 private Degree College of Commerce only in the town. 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Science in the town. 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts and Commerce in the town. 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kottamkara (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (65 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (65 km) .
 
There is 1 private Medical College in the town.The nearest private Medical College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kollam (12 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kollam (12 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Adichanalloor  (2 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kollam (12 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kollam (12 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kollam (17 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kollam (12 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Adichanalloor (4 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kollam (7 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Thazhuthala (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Cashew nut,Milk products


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Kollam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


