{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627978
|native_name=Thekkumbhagom (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Aluva
|subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Ernakulam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Aluva]]
|Nearest city=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=6.13
|elevation_m=
|population_total=10798
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1761
|population_blank1=5400
|population_blank2=5398
|female_per_1000_male=999
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Thekkumbhagom (CT) (627978) ==

Thekkumbhagom (CT) is a town in the [[Aluva]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 6.13 sq. km. and harbouring 2574 households with total population of 10798 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 28 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 228 km. Male population is 5400 and female population is 5398. Scheduled Caste population is 1095 and Scheduled Tribes population is 21. Census Location Code of the town is 627978<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 33 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 33 km. Railway station is at Chowwara at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2350 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 27


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 8874
* Literate male population: 4515 (83.61%)
* Literate female population: 4359 (80.75%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1000 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Nedumbassery (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 18 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 13 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 16 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 16 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 15 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 16 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 5 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 16 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 7 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at Vadakkumbhagom (3 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Kalady (10 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Nedumbassery (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (33 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalady (11 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (38 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Mattoor (10 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Thirkkakkara (10 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalamassery (23 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Manjapra (16 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kalady (15 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Aluva (14 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Aluva (14 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Aluva (6 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Aluva (37 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Paravur (4 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Thekkumbhagom (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Bricks,Furniture,Rice 


== Market and Banking ==


There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Aluva]]
[[Categories:Ernakulam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


