{{Infobox settlement
| name=Thekkumkara (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Mukundapuram
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=9.01
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=15258
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1693
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1145
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=83.06%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627935
| footnotes=
}}

== Thekkumkara (CT) (627935) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Thekkumkara (CT) is a town in the [[Mukundapuram]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 9.01 sq. km. and harbouring 3766 households with total population of 15258 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 31 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 280 km. Male population is 7110 and female population is 8148. Scheduled Caste population is 1629 and Scheduled Tribes population is 28. Census Location Code of the town is 627935<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 31 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 70 km. Railway station is at Irinjalakuda at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 12674 (83.06%)
* Literate male population: 6047 (85.05%)
* Literate female population: 6627 (81.33%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Irinjalakuda (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 19 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 8 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 3 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 25 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 5 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 25 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 7 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kodungallur (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (31 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (28 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (31 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Irinjalakuda (8 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Irinjalakuda (8 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Amballur (18 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Irinjalakuda (8 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Irinjalakuda (8 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kallur thekkummuri (ct) (15 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kodungallur (9 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Irinjalakuda (8 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Irinjalakuda (8 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Irinjalakuda (8 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Thekkumkara (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rubber products,Coconut oil,Steel nail


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Mukundapuram tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


