{{Infobox settlement
| name=Thenhippalam (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Malappuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Tirurangadi
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=17.32
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=32045
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1850
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1038
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=83.35%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627543
| footnotes=
}}

== Thenhippalam (CT) (627543) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Thenhippalam (CT) is a town in the [[Tirurangadi]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 17.32 sq. km. and harbouring 6782 households with total population of 32045 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 38 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 450 km. Male population is 15723 and female population is 16322. Scheduled Caste population is 3083 and Scheduled Tribes population is 71. Census Location Code of the town is 627543<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 38 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 30 km. Railway station is at Parappanangadi at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1568 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 29


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 26708 (83.35%)
* Literate male population: 13255 (84.3%)
* Literate female population: 13453 (82.42%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kozhikode (30 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 10 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 10 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 10 km .
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 25 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 6 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
There is 1 government Degree College of Science only in the town. 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Tirur (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (35 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College - University in the town.The nearest private Degree College - University is at  (0 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (30 km) .
There is 1 government Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Vengara (12 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kuttippuram (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Tirurangadi (15 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kuttippuram (25 km) .
There are 2 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Thenhippalam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==

There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Tirurangadi tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Malappuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


