{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627556
|native_name=Thennala (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Tirurangadi
|subdivision_name2=Malappuram
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Malappuram]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Tirurangadi]]
|Nearest city=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=22.46
|elevation_m=
|population_total=56546
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2517
|population_blank1=26715
|population_blank2=29831
|female_per_1000_male=1116
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Thennala (CT) (627556) ==

Thennala (CT) is a town in the [[Tirurangadi]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 22.46 sq. km. and harbouring 10353 households with total population of 56546 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 20 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 375 km. Male population is 26715 and female population is 29831. Scheduled Caste population is 1746 and Scheduled Tribes population is 66. Census Location Code of the town is 627556<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (population_total 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 20 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 35 km. Railway station is at Parappanangadi at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1568 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 29


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 45256
* Literate male population: 21635 (80.98%)
* Literate female population: 23621 (79.18%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Tirur (15 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 34 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 2 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 34 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 9 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 4 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Tirurangadi (15 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (34 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (12 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (35 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thenhippalam (12 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thenhippalam (12 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Tirurangadi (15 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Malappuram (20 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 2 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kottakkal (4 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Tirurangadi (4 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.There is 1 private stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kottakkal (4 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Kottakkal (4 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Thennala (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Textile wool / electrical equipments,Plastic goods,Foot wear


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 5 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Tirurangadi]]
[[Categories:Malappuram district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


