{{Infobox settlement
| name=Thikkody (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Quilandy
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=14.14
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=27051
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1913
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1193
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=82.84%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627393
| footnotes=
}}

== Thikkody (CT) (627393) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Thikkody (CT) is a town in the [[Quilandy]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 14.14 sq. km. and harbouring 6201 households with total population of 27051 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 35 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 450 km. Male population is 12334 and female population is 14717. Scheduled Caste population is 1416 and Scheduled Tribes population is 27. Census Location Code of the town is 627393<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 35 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 35 km. Railway station is at Thikkodi at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2704 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 22410 (82.84%)
* Literate male population: 10406 (84.37%)
* Literate female population: 12004 (81.57%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 125 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Quilandy (11 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 12 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 5 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 7 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Quilandy (11 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (35 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (32 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (35 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Maniyur (12 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kozhikode (8 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Vadakara (12 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Palayad (15 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kozhikode (35 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kozhikode (35 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (32 km) .
There are 2 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Vadakara (4 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Thikkody (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Khadi  products,Ice  


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Towns in Quilandy tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


