{{Infobox settlement
| name=Thiruvananthapuram (M Corp. + OG) (Part)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Neyyattinkara
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=29.05
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=25736
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=885
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=984
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=63.19%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803312
| footnotes=
}}

== Thiruvananthapuram (M Corp. + OG) (Part) (803312) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Thiruvananthapuram (M Corp. + OG) (Part) is a town in the [[Neyyattinkara]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 29.05 sq. km. and harbouring 4756 households with total population of 25736 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 10 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 10 km. Male population is 12967 and female population is 12769. Scheduled Caste population is 986 and Scheduled Tribes population is 45. Census Location Code of the town is 803312<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is ''.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 10 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 10 km. Railway station is at Thiruvananthapuram at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1820 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 16263 (63.19%)
* Literate male population: 7923 (61.1%)
* Literate female population: 8340 (65.31%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 500 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 10 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 10 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 18 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 7 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Thiruvananthapuram  (12 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Thiruvananthapuram (12 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thiruvananthapuram (12 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thiruvananthapuram (12 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thiruvananthapuram (12 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
There is 1 government Cinema Theatre in the town.There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Thiruvananthapuram (M Corp. + OG) (Part) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Neyyattinkara tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thiruvananthapuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


