{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627535
|native_name=Thirunavaya (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Tirur
|subdivision_name2=Malappuram
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Malappuram]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Tirur]]
|Nearest city=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=11.01
|elevation_m=
|population_total=24790
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2251
|population_blank1=11300
|population_blank2=13490
|female_per_1000_male=1193
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Thirunavaya (CT) (627535) ==

Thirunavaya (CT) is a town in the [[Tirur]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 11.01 sq. km. and harbouring 4616 households with total population of 24790 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 32 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 360 km. Male population is 11300 and female population is 13490. Scheduled Caste population is 1530 and Scheduled Tribes population is 156. Census Location Code of the town is 627535<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 32 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 80 km. Railway station is at Thirunavaya at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2769 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 19953
* Literate male population: 9167 (81.12%)
* Literate female population: 10786 (79.96%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 200 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Tirur (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 12 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 4 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
There are 2 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 32 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 4 km .
There are 12 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 12 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 9 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Tirur (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (55 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (43 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (80 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kuttippuram (8 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Tirur (12 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Tirur (12 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Talakkad (32 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Tirur (12 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kuttippuram (3 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Tirur (12 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Tirur (12 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Tirur (12 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Tirur (12 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Thirunavaya (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance):  interlock,Tiles,Bricks


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 4 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Tirur]]
[[Categories:Malappuram district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


