{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628012
|native_name=Thiruvankulam (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kanayannur 
|subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Ernakulam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kanayannur ]]
|Nearest city=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=10.49
|elevation_m=
|population_total=23160
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2207
|population_blank1=11380
|population_blank2=11780
|female_per_1000_male=1035
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Thiruvankulam (CT) (628012) ==

Thiruvankulam (CT) is a town in the [[Kanayannur ]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 10.49 sq. km. and harbouring 5919 households with total population of 23160 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 15 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 215 km. Male population is 11380 and female population is 11780. Scheduled Caste population is 4003 and Scheduled Tribes population is 92. Census Location Code of the town is 628012<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 9 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 9 km. Railway station is at Thrippunithura at a distance of 4 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3109 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 20718
* Literate male population: 10221 (89.82%)
* Literate female population: 10497 (89.11%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrippunithura (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 8 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 22 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 10 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Kochi (9 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kochi (9 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (9 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (17 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (15 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kochi (9 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thirkkakkara (16 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kochi (9 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kureekkad (5 km) .
There is 1 private other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kochi (9 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Thiruvankulam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Metal products,Plastics,Hollow bricks


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Kanayannur ]]
[[Categories:Ernakulam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


