{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627602
|native_name=Thirumittacode -II (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Ottappalam
|subdivision_name2=Palakkad
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Palakkad]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Ottappalam]]
|Nearest city=[[Palakkad (m)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=15.23
|elevation_m=
|population_total=12855
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=844
|population_blank1=6000
|population_blank2=6855
|female_per_1000_male=1142
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Thirumittacode -II (CT) (627602) ==

Thirumittacode -II (CT) is a town in the [[Ottappalam]] taluka of [[Palakkad]] district with an area of 15.23 sq. km. and harbouring 2851 households with total population of 12855 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Palakkad]] is at a distance of 60 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 350 km. Male population is 6000 and female population is 6855. Scheduled Caste population is 1873 and Scheduled Tribes population is 10. Census Location Code of the town is 627602<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Palakkad (m) at a distance of 60 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Coimbatore(m corp. )  at a distance of 80 km. Railway station is at Pattambi at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2500 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 38
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 10274
* Literate male population: 4901 (81.68%)
* Literate female population: 5373 (78.38%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 150 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Shoranur (22 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 11 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 8 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 4 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 8 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 10 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Pattambi (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (30 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (56 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (30 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Shoranur (22 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Vaniyamkulam (26 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Vaniyamkulam- ii  (22 km) .
 
There are 6 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrithala (10 km) .
There are 9 government other educational facilitiess in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kolapully (22 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Pattambi (12 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Ottappalam (36 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Palakkad (35 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Pattambi (12 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Thirumittacode -II (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Palakkad]]
[[Categories:Ottappalam]]
[[Categories:Palakkad district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


