{{Infobox settlement
| name=Thiruvalla (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Pathanamthitta
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Thiruvalla
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=27.15
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=52883
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1947
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1130
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803303
| footnotes=
}}

== Thiruvalla (M) (803303) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Thiruvalla (M) is a town in the [[Thiruvalla]] taluka of [[Pathanamthitta]] district with an area of 27.15 sq. km. and harbouring 13952 households with total population of 52883 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Pathanamthitta]] is at a distance of 30 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 128 km. Male population is 24817 and female population is 28066. Scheduled Caste population is 4488 and Scheduled Tribes population is 237. Census Location Code of the town is 803303<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (Population 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 72 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 128 km. Railway station is at Thiruvalla at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2667 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 30
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1900 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 30 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 4 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 30 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 19 km .
There are 23 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 6 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 98 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 10 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 18 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 21 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 14 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 12 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
There is 1 private Degree College of Science only in the town. 
There is 1 private Degree College of Commerce only in the town. 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (128 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (45 km) .
 
There is 1 private Medical College in the town.The nearest private Medical College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Bharanikkavu (18 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Pandalam (10 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.There are 2 private Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 2 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 23 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 7 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Thiruvalla (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Cables,Electronic equipments,Wheat products


== Market and Banking ==
There are 18 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 14 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 7 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 5 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 31 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Pathanamthitta]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thiruvalla tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Pathanamthitta district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


