{{Infobox settlement
| name=Thodupuzha (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Idukki
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Thodupuzha
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=35.43
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=52045
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1468
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1035
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803293
| footnotes=
}}

== Thodupuzha (M) (803293) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Thodupuzha (M) is a town in the [[Thodupuzha]] taluka of [[Idukki]] district with an area of 35.43 sq. km. and harbouring 12604 households with total population of 52045 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Painavu]] is at a distance of 56 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 211 km. Male population is 25563 and female population is 26482. Scheduled Caste population is 2146 and Scheduled Tribes population is 572. Census Location Code of the town is 803293<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (Population 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 85 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 62 km. Railway station is at Aluva at a distance of 32 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3508 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 2000 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There are 2 Alternative Medicine hospitals in the town.
There are 25 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
There is 1 Mobile health clinic in the town.
There are 3 Other medical amenitiess in the town.
There are 18 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 12 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 6 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 32 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 7 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 7 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottayam (24 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (24 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Arpookara (20 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Muttom (4 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kochi (5 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalamassery (24 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Special School for Disableds in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kochi (4 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kothamangalam (6 km) .
There are 3 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 6 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 6 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Thodupuzha (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Foot wears,Sweets,Pickles 


== Market and Banking ==
There are 4 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 18 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 8 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 7 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 8 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Idukki]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thodupuzha tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Idukki district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


