{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627245
|native_name=Thottada (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kannur
|subdivision_name2=Kannur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kannur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kannur]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=18.37
|elevation_m=
|population_total=40818
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2221
|population_blank1=18483
|population_blank2=22335
|female_per_1000_male=1208
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Thottada (CT) (627245) ==

Thottada (CT) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 18.37 sq. km. and harbouring 8798 households with total population of 40818 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 9 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 516 km. Male population is 18483 and female population is 22335. Scheduled Caste population is 1294 and Scheduled Tribes population is 199. Census Location Code of the town is 627245<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 78 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 108 km. Railway station is at Edakkad at a distance of 9 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2996 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 35281
* Literate male population: 15896 (86.0%)
* Literate female population: 19385 (86.79%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 600 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kannur (9 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 10 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 18 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 2 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 14 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (25 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (25 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (15 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (18 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There are 9 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Mavilayi  (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 government Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Thottada (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom,Coir,Beedi


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 18 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Kannur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


