{{Infobox settlement
| name=Thrissur (M Corp.)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Thrissur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=101.42
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=315957
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=3115
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1074
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803280
| footnotes=
}}

== Thrissur (M Corp.) (803280) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Thrissur (M Corp.) is a town in the [[Thrissur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 101.42 sq. km. and harbouring 78336 households with total population of 315957 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 0 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 295 km. Male population is 152296 and female population is 163661. Scheduled Caste population is 24210 and Scheduled Tribes population is 605. Census Location Code of the town is 803280<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class I (Population > 1,00,000).
The civic status of the town is ''.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 0 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 79 km. Railway station is at Thrissur at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2900 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 37
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 852 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There are 7 Allopathic hospital facilitys in the town.
There are 3 Alternative Medicine hospitals in the town.
There are 12 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 4 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 15 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 14 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There are 5 Veterinary hospitals in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 18 km .
There are 87 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 17 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 6 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 207 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 40 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 13 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 12 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 10 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 13 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 8 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 19 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Degree College of Arts onlys in the town.There are 5 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Commerce only in the town. 
 
 
There are 2 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.There are 5 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College - Law in the town.The nearest private Degree College - Law is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (5 km) .
 
There is 1 private Medical College in the town.The nearest private Medical College is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Management Institutes in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Polytechnics in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Special School for Disableds in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 4 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 10 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.There are 4 private Old Age Homes in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government stadiums in the town.There are 3 private stadiums in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Cinema Theatres in the town.There are 4 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 8 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 32 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Public Librarys in the town.There are 33 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Thrissur (M Corp.) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Tiles and bricks,"general engineering machine tools , moulds",Food products


== Market and Banking ==
There are 30 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 39 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 20 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 3 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 6 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


