{{Infobox settlement
| name=Thrithala (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Palakkad
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Ottappalam
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=21.78
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=27796
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1276
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Palakkad (m)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1119
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=81.81%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627600
| footnotes=
}}

== Thrithala (CT) (627600) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Thrithala (CT) is a town in the [[Ottappalam]] taluka of [[Palakkad]] district with an area of 21.78 sq. km. and harbouring 5879 households with total population of 27796 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Palakkad]] is at a distance of 70 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 350 km. Male population is 13115 and female population is 14681. Scheduled Caste population is 5254 and Scheduled Tribes population is 19. Census Location Code of the town is 627600<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Palakkad (m) at a distance of 70 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Coimbatore(m corp. )  at a distance of 89 km. Railway station is at Pattambi at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2500 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 38
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 22740 (81.81%)
* Literate male population: 10896 (83.08%)
* Literate female population: 11844 (80.68%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 60 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Shoranur (20 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 11 km .
There are 7 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There are 5 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 24 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
There is 1 Mobile health clinic in the town.
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 7 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (60 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (47 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (60 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Nagalassery (5 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Pattambi  (6 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Shoranur  (20 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Ottappalam (35 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Palakkad  (70 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Ottappalam (8 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Ottappalam (35 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Ottappalam (8 km) .
There are 6 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 4 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Thrithala (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Ayurveda medicine


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Palakkad]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ottappalam tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Palakkad district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


