{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628445
|native_name=Thrikkadavoor (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kollam
|subdivision_name2=Kollam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kollam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kollam]]
|Nearest city=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=14.85
|elevation_m=
|population_total=39285
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2645
|population_blank1=19005
|population_blank2=20280
|female_per_1000_male=1067
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Thrikkadavoor (CT) (628445) ==

Thrikkadavoor (CT) is a town in the [[Kollam]] taluka of [[Kollam]] district with an area of 14.85 sq. km. and harbouring 9845 households with total population of 39285 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kollam]] is at a distance of 7 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 72 km. Male population is 19005 and female population is 20280. Scheduled Caste population is 3173 and Scheduled Tribes population is 109. Census Location Code of the town is 628445<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 7 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 72 km. Railway station is at Kollam at a distance of 7 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2790 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 33740
* Literate male population: 16477 (86.7%)
* Literate female population: 17263 (85.12%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 110 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kollam (7 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 11 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 17 km .
There are 5 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 22 km .
There are 9 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 9 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 15 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kollam (7 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (72 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (72 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kulasekharapuram (75 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kollam (7 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kollam (7 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Karunagappally (22 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kollam (7 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kollam (7 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kollam (7 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kollam (7 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kollam (3 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kollam (7 km) .
There are 7 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.There are 4 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Thrikkadavoor (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir,Cashew nut,Steel products


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 5 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Kollam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


