{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628439
|native_name=Thrikkaruva (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kollam
|subdivision_name2=Kollam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kollam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kollam]]
|Nearest city=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=18.39
|elevation_m=
|population_total=25432
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1382
|population_blank1=12087
|population_blank2=13345
|female_per_1000_male=1104
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Thrikkaruva (CT) (628439) ==

Thrikkaruva (CT) is a town in the [[Kollam]] taluka of [[Kollam]] district with an area of 18.39 sq. km. and harbouring 6307 households with total population of 25432 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kollam]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 72 km. Male population is 12087 and female population is 13345. Scheduled Caste population is 3642 and Scheduled Tribes population is 54. Census Location Code of the town is 628439<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 12 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 72 km. Railway station is at Kollam at a distance of 14 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2790 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 21274
* Literate male population: 10273 (84.99%)
* Literate female population: 11001 (82.44%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 110 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kollam (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 16 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 4 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There are 3 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 26 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kollam (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (72 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (72 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kulasekharapuram (20 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kollam (12 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kollam (12 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Karunagappally (20 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kollam (12 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kollam (12 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kollam (12 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kollam (12 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Thrikkaruva (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir,Cashew nut,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Kollam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


