{{Infobox settlement
| name=Thrippunithura (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kanayannur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=18.69
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=69390
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=3712
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1045
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803290
| footnotes=
}}

== Thrippunithura (M) (803290) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Thrippunithura (M) is a town in the [[Kanayannur]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 18.69 sq. km. and harbouring 18096 households with total population of 69390 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 8 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 240 km. Male population is 33918 and female population is 35472. Scheduled Caste population is 6547 and Scheduled Tribes population is 166. Census Location Code of the town is 803290<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (Population 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 8 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 8 km. Railway station is at Thrippunithura at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3228 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 3500 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 11 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 1 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 1 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 1 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 1 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 26 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 20 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There are 6 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 75 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 11 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 7 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 10 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 6 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 6 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 6 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Degree College of Arts onlys in the town.There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts and Science in the town. 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts and Commerce in the town. 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kochi (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (10 km) .
 
There is 1 government Medical College in the town.The nearest private Medical College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kakkanad (6 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kochi (8 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government other educational facilitiess in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Working Women's Hostels in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 12 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Thrippunithura (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Paper bag,Electronic items,Paint


== Market and Banking ==
There are 10 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 7 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 4 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 6 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kanayannur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernakulam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


