{{Infobox settlement
| name=Tirur (M)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Malappuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Tirur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=16.55
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=56058
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=3387
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1130
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=()%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=803271
| footnotes=
}}

== Tirur (M) (803271) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Tirur (M) is a town in the [[Tirur]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 16.55 sq. km. and harbouring 10559 households with total population of 56058 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 26 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 373 km. Male population is 26308 and female population is 29750. Scheduled Caste population is 2717 and Scheduled Tribes population is 128. Census Location Code of the town is 803271<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (Population 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 26 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 51 km. Railway station is at Tirur at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2200 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: () (()%)
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 10300 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 8 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 26 km .
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 25 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 26 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 26 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 26 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 13 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 7 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 146 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 11 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (51 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (30 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (51 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kuttippuram (17 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Malappuram (26 km) .
There is 1 private Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Malappuram (26 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Tirur (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Readymade garments,Bakery products,"wooden furniture, building materials"


== Market and Banking ==
There are 14 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 7 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 5 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 3 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Tirur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Malappuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


