{{Infobox settlement
| name=Tirurangadi (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Malappuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Tirurangadi
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=17.73
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=56632
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=3194
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1099
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=79.99%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627553
| footnotes=
}}

== Tirurangadi (CT) (627553) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Tirurangadi (CT) is a town in the [[Tirurangadi]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 17.73 sq. km. and harbouring 9829 households with total population of 56632 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 30 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 425 km. Male population is 26975 and female population is 29657. Scheduled Caste population is 1338 and Scheduled Tribes population is 68. Census Location Code of the town is 627553<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (Population 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 30 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 40 km. Railway station is at Parappanangadi at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1568 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 29


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 45302 (79.99%)
* Literate male population: 22008 (81.59%)
* Literate female population: 23294 (78.54%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Malappuram (30 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 11 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 12 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 47 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 6 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 6 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 7 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 7 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Commerce in the town. 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (47 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (14 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (40 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thenhippalam (14 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thenhippalam (14 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Moonniyur (11 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Manjeri (38 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Malappuram (30 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Tirurangadi (35 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Tirurangadi (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil,Rice


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 4 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Tirurangadi tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Malappuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


