{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627919
|native_name=Trikkur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Mukundapuram
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Mukundapuram]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=8.5
|elevation_m=
|population_total=13093
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1540
|population_blank1=6465
|population_blank2=6628
|female_per_1000_male=1025
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Trikkur (CT) (627919) ==

Trikkur (CT) is a town in the [[Mukundapuram]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 8.5 sq. km. and harbouring 3177 households with total population of 13093 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 270 km. Male population is 6465 and female population is 6628. Scheduled Caste population is 805 and Scheduled Tribes population is 25. Census Location Code of the town is 627919<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 12 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 57 km. Railway station is at Ollur at a distance of 4 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 11358
* Literate male population: 5675 (87.78%)
* Literate female population: 5683 (85.74%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrissur (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 4 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 4 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 10 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (5 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Vylathoor (9 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Amballur (5 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Irinjalakuda (10 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Irinjalakuda (17 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Varandarapally (8 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (12 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Irinjalakuda (11 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Nenmenikkara (8 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Amballur (4 km) .
There are 4 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Trikkur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Clay product,Cement bricks,Copra


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 5 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Mukundapuram]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


