{{Infobox settlement
| name=Triprangode (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Malappuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Tirur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=20.67
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=41167
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1991
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1147
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=80.28%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627534
| footnotes=
}}

== Triprangode (CT) (627534) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Triprangode (CT) is a town in the [[Tirur]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 20.67 sq. km. and harbouring 7821 households with total population of 41167 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 37 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 380 km. Male population is 19174 and female population is 21993. Scheduled Caste population is 2341 and Scheduled Tribes population is 194. Census Location Code of the town is 627534<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 37 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 52 km. Railway station is at Tirur at a distance of 6 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2769 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 33049 (80.28%)
* Literate male population: 15492 (80.8%)
* Literate female population: 17557 (79.83%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 750 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Tirur (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 3 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There are 5 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 3 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 22 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
There are 2 Other medical amenitiess in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 11 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Tirur (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (55 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (45 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (52 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Tavanur (25 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Malappuram (37 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Tirur (6 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Talakkad (3 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Vettom (10 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kuttippuram (3 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Tirur (5 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Tavanur (19 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Tirur (6 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Triprangode (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Pipes,Plastic tins,Nutrimix


== Market and Banking ==


There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Tirur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Malappuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


