{{Infobox settlement
| name=Udma (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kasaragod
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Hosdurg
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=4.53
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=8115
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1791
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1258
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=78.36%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627166
| footnotes=
}}

== Udma (CT) (627166) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Udma (CT) is a town in the [[Hosdurg]] taluka of [[Kasaragod]] district with an area of 4.53 sq. km. and harbouring 1669 households with total population of 8115 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kasaragod]] is at a distance of 18 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 573 km. Male population is 3593 and female population is 4522. Scheduled Caste population is 35 and Scheduled Tribes population is 8. Census Location Code of the town is 627166<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (Population 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 18 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 152 km. Railway station is at Kottikulam at a distance of 2 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3560 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 6359 (78.36%)
* Literate male population: 2912 (81.05%)
* Literate female population: 3447 (76.23%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 400 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kasaragod (18 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 6 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There are 8 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 6 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kanhangad (18 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (16 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (16 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Pariyaram (56 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kasaragod (18 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kasaragod (18 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kanhangad (17 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kudlu (1 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kanhangad (18 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kanhangad (18 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kanhangad (18 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Chittarikkal (40 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kanhangad (18 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Udma (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Cloth


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Towns in Hosdurg tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kasaragod district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


