{{Infobox settlement
| name=Uliyazhathura (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Thiruvananthapuram 
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=14.86
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=28230
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1899
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1044
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=86.93%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628513
| footnotes=
}}

== Uliyazhathura (CT) (628513) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Uliyazhathura (CT) is a town in the [[Thiruvananthapuram ]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 14.86 sq. km. and harbouring 7251 households with total population of 28230 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 15 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 15 km. Male population is 13809 and female population is 14421. Scheduled Caste population is 3137 and Scheduled Tribes population is 81. Census Location Code of the town is 628513<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 15 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 15 km. Railway station is at Thiruvananthapuram at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1828 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 24539 (86.93%)
* Literate male population: 12186 (88.25%)
* Literate female population: 12353 (85.66%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1000 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 10 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 16 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 4 km .
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There are 2 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 9 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 11 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 11 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College - Others in the town.The nearest private Degree College - Others is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Medical College is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
There is 1 government other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Thiruvananthapuarm (9 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Iroopara (6 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Thiruvananthapuram (14 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Uliyazhathura (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Hollow bricks


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thiruvananthapuram  tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thiruvananthapuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


