{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627125
|native_name=Uppala (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kasaragod
|subdivision_name2=Kasaragod
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kasaragod]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kasaragod]]
|Nearest city=[[Mangalore(m corp. + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=5.45
|elevation_m=
|population_total=11542
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2117
|population_blank1=5448
|population_blank2=6094
|female_per_1000_male=1118
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Uppala (CT) (627125) ==

Uppala (CT) is a town in the [[Kasaragod]] taluka of [[Kasaragod]] district with an area of 5.45 sq. km. and harbouring 2282 households with total population of 11542 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kasaragod]] is at a distance of 28 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 553 km. Male population is 5448 and female population is 6094. Scheduled Caste population is 386 and Scheduled Tribes population is 38. Census Location Code of the town is 627125<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Mangalore(m corp. + og) at a distance of 32 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 200 km. Railway station is at Uppala at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3401 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 21


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 9070
* Literate male population: 4386 (80.51%)
* Literate female population: 4684 (76.86%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kasaragod (28 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 7 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 24 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 25 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 25 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 6 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 15 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kalliassery (34 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (34 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Mangalore (32 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kasaragod (28 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kasaragod (28 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Periya (28 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kasaragod (28 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kasaragod (28 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kasaragod (28 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kasaragod (28 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kasaragod (28 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Chittarikkal (52 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Hosabettu (28 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kasaragod  (28 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Public Library is at Hosabettu (10 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Uppala (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Copra


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Kasaragod]]
[[Categories:Kasaragod district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


