{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627548
|native_name=Urakam (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Tirurangadi
|subdivision_name2=Malappuram
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Malappuram]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Tirurangadi]]
|Nearest city=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=21.63
|elevation_m=
|population_total=29157
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1347
|population_blank1=13915
|population_blank2=15242
|female_per_1000_male=1095
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Urakam (CT) (627548) ==

Urakam (CT) is a town in the [[Tirurangadi]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 21.63 sq. km. and harbouring 5294 households with total population of 29157 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 380 km. Male population is 13915 and female population is 15242. Scheduled Caste population is 1498 and Scheduled Tribes population is 50. Census Location Code of the town is 627548<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 12 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 35 km. Railway station is at Parappanangadi at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1568 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 29


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 23280
* Literate male population: 11176 (80.32%)
* Literate female population: 12104 (79.41%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Malappuram (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 9 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 23 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 26 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 2 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 11 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Tirurangadi (9 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (50 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (25 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (35 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thenhippalam (25 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thenhippalam (25 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thenhippalam (25 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Vengara (4 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Malappuram (12 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Malappuram (12 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Tirurangadi (11 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Malappuram (13 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Tavanur (50 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Malappuram (15 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Vengara (2 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Tirurangadi (6 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Urakam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Aluminium vessels,Paper plates,Plastic carry bag


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Tirurangadi]]
[[Categories:Malappuram district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


