{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627810
|native_name=Vadanappally (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Chavakkad
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Chavakkad]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=14.6
|elevation_m=
|population_total=30657
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2099
|population_blank1=13966
|population_blank2=16691
|female_per_1000_male=1195
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Vadanappally (CT) (627810) ==

Vadanappally (CT) is a town in the [[Chavakkad]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 14.6 sq. km. and harbouring 7302 households with total population of 30657 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 20 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 320 km. Male population is 13966 and female population is 16691. Scheduled Caste population is 802 and Scheduled Tribes population is 10. Census Location Code of the town is 627810<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 20 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 62 km. Railway station is at Guruvayoor at a distance of 16 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2770 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 27


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 26316
* Literate male population: 11953 (85.59%)
* Literate female population: 14363 (86.05%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 70 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Guruvayoor (16 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 11 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 17 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 20 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 20 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 20 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 15 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 7 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Nattika (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (33 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Nattika (8 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Manalur (12 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (20 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Guruvayoor (16 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Guruvayoor (16 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (20 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Mullassery (3 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Vadanappally (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil,Copra,Coir furniture


== Market and Banking ==
There are 4 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Chavakkad]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


