{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627986
|native_name=Vadakkekara (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Paravur
|subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Ernakulam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Paravur]]
|Nearest city=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=6.48
|elevation_m=
|population_total=20571
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=3174
|population_blank1=10065
|population_blank2=10506
|female_per_1000_male=1043
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Vadakkekara (CT) (627986) ==

Vadakkekara (CT) is a town in the [[Paravur]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 6.48 sq. km. and harbouring 5138 households with total population of 20571 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 25 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 239 km. Male population is 10065 and female population is 10506. Scheduled Caste population is 1498 and Scheduled Tribes population is 21. Census Location Code of the town is 627986<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 38 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 38 km. Railway station is at Aluva at a distance of 20 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2810 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 18045
* Literate male population: 8940 (88.82%)
* Literate female population: 9105 (86.66%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Paravur (3 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 9 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 6 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 13 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Moothakunnam  (4 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (38 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (25 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (10 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Moothakunnam (4 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Paravur (7 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalamassery (20 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Paravur (3 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kochi (14 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kochi (14 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Aluva (20 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Paravur (4 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Aluva (20 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Paravur (4 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Paravur (4 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Vadakkekara (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir,Coconut oil,Milk products


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 5 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Paravur]]
[[Categories:Ernakulam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


