{{Infobox settlement
| name=Vadakkumkara (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Mukundapuram
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=6.64
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=10407
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1567
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1140
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=86.27%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627932
| footnotes=
}}

== Vadakkumkara (CT) (627932) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Vadakkumkara (CT) is a town in the [[Mukundapuram]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 6.64 sq. km. and harbouring 2669 households with total population of 10407 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 31 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 280 km. Male population is 4862 and female population is 5545. Scheduled Caste population is 1077 and Scheduled Tribes population is 14. Census Location Code of the town is 627932<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 31 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 55 km. Railway station is at Irinjalakuda at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 8978 (86.27%)
* Literate male population: 4218 (86.75%)
* Literate female population: 4760 (85.84%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 850 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Irinjalakuda (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 6 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 9 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There are 2 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 28 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 28 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Vellookkara (1 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Velookara (1 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Irinjalakuda (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (31 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (33 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (31 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (35 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Irinjalakuda (6 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kallettumkara (13 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Velookara (1 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kottanellur (2 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Irinjalakuda (9 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Irinjalakuda (6 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Irinjalakuda (6 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Irinjalakuda (6 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Irinjalakuda (6 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Irinjalakuda (6 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Vadakkumkara (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Ayurveda medicines,Inverter,Fibre products


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Mukundapuram tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


