{{Infobox settlement
| name=Vadakkekad (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Chavakkad
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=8.19
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=15811
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1930
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1218
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=84.54%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627794
| footnotes=
}}

== Vadakkekad (CT) (627794) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Vadakkekad (CT) is a town in the [[Chavakkad]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 8.19 sq. km. and harbouring 3473 households with total population of 15811 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 27 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 327 km. Male population is 7127 and female population is 8684. Scheduled Caste population is 444 and Scheduled Tribes population is 9. Census Location Code of the town is 627794<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 27 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 105 km. Railway station is at Guruvayoor at a distance of 9 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2800 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 37
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 13366 (84.54%)
* Literate male population: 5991 (84.06%)
* Literate female population: 7375 (84.93%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 700 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kunnamkulam (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 12 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 21 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 2 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 12 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (27 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (30 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (27 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Perumpilavu (12 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kunnamkulam (5 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kunnamkulam (5 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Guruvayoor (5 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kunnamkulam (5 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (27 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kadikad (4 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Guruvayoor (5 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Guruvayoor (3 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Iringaprom (10 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kunnamkulam (5 km) .
There are 5 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Vylathur (2 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Vadakkekad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Beedi,Copra,Tooth powder


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Chavakkad tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


