{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627973
|native_name=Vadakkumbhagom (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Aluva
|subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Ernakulam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Aluva]]
|Nearest city=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=7.19
|elevation_m=
|population_total=11727
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1631
|population_blank1=5640
|population_blank2=6087
|female_per_1000_male=1079
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Vadakkumbhagom (CT) (627973) ==

Vadakkumbhagom (CT) is a town in the [[Aluva]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 7.19 sq. km. and harbouring 2861 households with total population of 11727 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 43 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 260 km. Male population is 5640 and female population is 6087. Scheduled Caste population is 1030 and Scheduled Tribes population is 42. Census Location Code of the town is 627973<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 35 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 35 km. Railway station is at Chowwara at a distance of 5 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3656 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 39
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 10198
* Literate male population: 4985 (88.39%)
* Literate female population: 5213 (85.64%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 1000 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Angamaly (14 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 15 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 15 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 16 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 1 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 13 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Kalady (6 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Mattoor (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (35 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalady (5 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (28 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Koovapady (15 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kochi (35 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Koovappady (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Aluva (16 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Manjapra (20 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Kalady (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Perumbavoor (12 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Perumbavoor (12 km) .
The nearest government Cinema Theatre is at Kalady (6 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Vadakkumbhagom (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice,Rubber products,Plastic products


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Aluva]]
[[Categories:Ernakulam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


