{{Infobox settlement
| name=Vadakkumthala (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kollam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Karunagappally
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=8.31
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=20993
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2526
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kollam (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1098
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=83.28%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628370
| footnotes=
}}

== Vadakkumthala (CT) (628370) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Vadakkumthala (CT) is a town in the [[Karunagappally]] taluka of [[Kollam]] district with an area of 8.31 sq. km. and harbouring 5084 households with total population of 20993 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kollam]] is at a distance of 17 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 99 km. Male population is 10002 and female population is 10991. Scheduled Caste population is 2650 and Scheduled Tribes population is 72. Census Location Code of the town is 628370<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kollam (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 17 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 99 km. Railway station is at Karunagappally at a distance of 4 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2790 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 22


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 17483 (83.28%)
* Literate male population: 8475 (84.73%)
* Literate female population: 9008 (81.96%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 70 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Karunagappally (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 19 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 10 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at Karunagappally (4 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Chavara  (3 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Chavara (4 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (99 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (99 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Kulasekharapuram (16 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thodiyoor (6 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Chavara (5 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kallelibhagom (4 km) .
 
There are 2 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Chavara (4 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Ayanivelikulangara (3 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kollam (17 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kollam (20 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kollam (20 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kollam (20 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Karunagappally (5 km) .
There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Vadakkumthala (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil,Coconut oil,Cashew nut


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Kollam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Karunagappally tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kollam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


