{{Infobox settlement
| name=Vakkom (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Chirayinkeezhu
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=6.21
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=19267
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=3102
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1316
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=82.53%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628475
| footnotes=
}}

== Vakkom (CT) (628475) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Vakkom (CT) is a town in the [[Chirayinkeezhu]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 6.21 sq. km. and harbouring 4937 households with total population of 19267 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 35 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 35 km. Male population is 8319 and female population is 10948. Scheduled Caste population is 2192 and Scheduled Tribes population is 26. Census Location Code of the town is 628475<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 35 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 35 km. Railway station is at Kadakkavoor at a distance of 3 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1820 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 30


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 15902 (82.53%)
* Literate male population: 7006 (84.22%)
* Literate female population: 8896 (81.26%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 150 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Attingal (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 10 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 20 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 34 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 7 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 8 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Middle Schools in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Attingal (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (35 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (35 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Nedumangad (32 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Nagaroor (8 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thiruvananthapuram (35 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Attingal (8 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Attingal  (6 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Attingal (15 km) .
There is 1 private other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Chemmaruthy (8 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Attingal (10 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Attingal (11 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Attngal (8 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Vakkom (8 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Vakkom (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Chirayinkeezhu tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thiruvananthapuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


