{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627232
|native_name=Valapattanam (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Kannur
|subdivision_name2=Kannur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Kannur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Kannur]]
|Nearest city=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=2.03
|elevation_m=
|population_total=7955
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=3918
|population_blank1=3677
|population_blank2=4278
|female_per_1000_male=1163
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Valapattanam (CT) (627232) ==

Valapattanam (CT) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 2.03 sq. km. and harbouring 1329 households with total population of 7955 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 8 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 524 km. Male population is 3677 and female population is 4278. Scheduled Caste population is 184 and Scheduled Tribes population is 26. Census Location Code of the town is 627232<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 60 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 90 km. Railway station is at Valapattanam at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2996 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 6564
* Literate male population: 3039 (82.65%)
* Literate female population: 3525 (82.4%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 200 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kannur (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 12 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 9 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 9 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 9 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Puzhathi  (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (90 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (9 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (23 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (7 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kannur (7 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thottada  (9 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Kannur (8 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Pallikkunnu (16 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Puzhathi (7 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Pallikkunnu (8 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Chirakkal (2 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Kannur (9 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Valapattanam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom,Plywood,Processed fish


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Kannur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


