{{Infobox settlement
| name=Valayam (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Vadakara
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=22.09
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=14328
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=648
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1106
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=80.42%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627353
| footnotes=
}}

== Valayam (CT) (627353) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Valayam (CT) is a town in the [[Vadakara]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 22.09 sq. km. and harbouring 3187 households with total population of 14328 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 65 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 495 km. Male population is 6801 and female population is 7527. Scheduled Caste population is 207 and Scheduled Tribes population is 218. Census Location Code of the town is 627353<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 65 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 65 km. Railway station is at Vadakara at a distance of 23 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2704 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 11523 (80.42%)
* Literate male population: 5714 (84.02%)
* Literate female population: 5809 (77.18%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 140 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Vadakara (23 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 17 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 22 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 65 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 22 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 32 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 12 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Mokeri (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (65 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (35 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (65 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Maniyur (40 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kozhikode (65 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Vadakara (23 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Nadapuram (7 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Thuneri (8 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Vadakara (4 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Vadakara (6 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Vadakara (5 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Vadakara  (6 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Nadapuram (7 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Vadakara (4 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Vadakara  (3 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Valayam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Copra


== Market and Banking ==


There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Towns in Vadakara tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


