{{Infobox settlement
| name=Vaniyamkulam- II (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Palakkad
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Ottappalam
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=20.04
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=16085
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=802
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Palakkad (m)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1075
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=86.5%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627601
| footnotes=
}}

== Vaniyamkulam- II (CT) (627601) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Vaniyamkulam- II (CT) is a town in the [[Ottappalam]] taluka of [[Palakkad]] district with an area of 20.04 sq. km. and harbouring 3896 households with total population of 16085 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Palakkad]] is at a distance of 70 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 350 km. Male population is 7750 and female population is 8335. Scheduled Caste population is 2760 and Scheduled Tribes population is 6. Census Location Code of the town is 627601<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Palakkad (m) at a distance of 70 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Coimbatore(m corp. )  at a distance of 90 km. Railway station is at Ottappalam at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2500 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 13914 (86.5%)
* Literate male population: 6764 (87.28%)
* Literate female population: 7150 (85.78%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Shoranur (22 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 10 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 14 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 8 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 8 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Thrithala (4 km) .
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
 
 
There are 2 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerces in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (65 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (44 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (65 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Nagalassery (8 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Pattambi  (65 km) .
There is 1 private Polytechnic in the town.The nearest private Polytechnic is at  (0 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Ottappalam (8 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Ottappalam (8 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Palakkad  (70 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Ottappalam (8 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Ottappalam (8 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Ottappalam (40 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Ottappalam (8 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Ottappalam (4 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Ottappalam (4 km) .
The nearest private Public Library is at Ottappalam (4 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Vaniyamkulam- II (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Matches,Agro equipments,Cutlry goods


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Palakkad]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ottappalam tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Palakkad district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


