{{Infobox settlement
| name=Varam (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kannur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kannur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=9.81
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=17008
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1733
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kanhangad  (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1220
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=83.65%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627237
| footnotes=
}}

== Varam (CT) (627237) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Varam (CT) is a town in the [[Kannur]] taluka of [[Kannur]] district with an area of 9.81 sq. km. and harbouring 3269 households with total population of 17008 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kannur]] is at a distance of 8 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 538 km. Male population is 7661 and female population is 9347. Scheduled Caste population is 1480 and Scheduled Tribes population is 93. Census Location Code of the town is 627237<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kanhangad  (m + og) at a distance of 69 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 105 km. Railway station is at Kannur at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3470 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 35
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 14228 (83.65%)
* Literate male population: 6444 (84.11%)
* Literate female population: 7784 (83.28%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kannur (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 6 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 15 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 1 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 1 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 10 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.

There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 7 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Chelora (2 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thottada (16 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (105 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalliasseri (30 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Ancharakandy (10 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Kannur (25 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kannur (25 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Edakkad (12 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Kannur (8 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Elayavoor (7 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Pallikkunnu (6 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kannur (8 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kannur (8 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kannur (8 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Public Library is at Kannur (10 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Varam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Leather,Beedi,Handloom


== Market and Banking ==


There are 6 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Kannur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kannur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


