{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627991
|native_name=Varappuzha (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Paravur
|subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Ernakulam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Paravur]]
|Nearest city=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=10.01
|elevation_m=
|population_total=26750
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2672
|population_blank1=13171
|population_blank2=13579
|female_per_1000_male=1030
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Varappuzha (CT) (627991) ==

Varappuzha (CT) is a town in the [[Paravur]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 10.01 sq. km. and harbouring 6667 households with total population of 26750 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 13 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 240 km. Male population is 13171 and female population is 13579. Scheduled Caste population is 787 and Scheduled Tribes population is 48. Census Location Code of the town is 627991<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 18 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 18 km. Railway station is at Aluva at a distance of 18 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3053 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 23486
* Literate male population: 11663 (88.55%)
* Literate female population: 11823 (87.07%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 220 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Paravur (13 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 18 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 7 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Kottuvally (3 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Moothakunnam  (15 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (18 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (20 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Kalamassery (8 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kalamassery (8 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalamassery (12 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Eloor  (3 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Aluva (10 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kochi (16 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Kochi (4 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Aluva (11 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Aluva (11 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Cinema Theatre in the town.There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Varappuzha (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil,Curry powder,Beedi


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Paravur]]
[[Categories:Ernakulam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


