{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803309
|native_name=Varkala (M)
|subdivision_name3=Chirayinkeezhu
|subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thiruvananthapuram]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Chirayinkeezhu]]
|Nearest city=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=14.87
|elevation_m=
|population_total=40048
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2693
|population_blank1=18312
|population_blank2=21736
|female_per_1000_male=1186
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Varkala (M) (803309) ==

Varkala (M) is a town in the [[Chirayinkeezhu]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 14.87 sq. km. and harbouring 9498 households with total population of 40048 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 50 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 50 km. Male population is 18312 and female population is 21736. Scheduled Caste population is 5885 and Scheduled Tribes population is 134. Census Location Code of the town is 803309<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipality'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 50 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 50 km. Railway station is at Varkala at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1820 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: #N/A
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 600 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
There are 2 Alternative Medicine hospitals in the town.
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 20 km .
There are 4 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 50 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 50 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 50 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 27 km .
There are 24 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 22 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 10 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 7 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 6 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 5 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (50 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (50 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Nedumangad (40 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Attingal (24 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Chemmaruthy (12 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Attingal (24 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Chemmaruthy (5 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Manampoor (8 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Attingal (25 km) .
There are 4 private Cinema Theatres in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Varkala (M) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut products,Cashew nut,Fish products


== Market and Banking ==
There are 8 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 4 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Chirayinkeezhu]]
[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


