{{Infobox settlement
| name=Vattappara (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Nedumangad
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=14.82
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=27140
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1831
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1074
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=85.75%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628503
| footnotes=
}}

== Vattappara (CT) (628503) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Vattappara (CT) is a town in the [[Nedumangad]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 14.82 sq. km. and harbouring 6982 households with total population of 27140 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 12 km. Male population is 13080 and female population is 14060. Scheduled Caste population is 3093 and Scheduled Tribes population is 171. Census Location Code of the town is 628503<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 12 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 12 km. Railway station is at Thiruvananthapuram at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1827 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 30.8
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.4


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 23272 (85.75%)
* Literate male population: 11388 (87.06%)
* Literate female population: 11884 (84.52%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 150 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Nedumangad (7 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 14 km .
There are 4 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 28 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 9 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Nedumangad (4 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (12 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (12 km) .
 
The nearest private Medical College is at Nedumangad (20 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Nedumangad (7 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Thiruvananthapuram (12 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thiruvananthapuram (12 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Thiruvananthapuram (12 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Thiruvananthapuram (12 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Thiruvananthapuarm (6 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thiruvananthapuram (7 km) .
The nearest government Cinema Theatre is at Nedumangad (7 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Thiruvananthapuram (12 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Vattappara (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.


There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Nedumangad tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thiruvananthapuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


