{{Infobox settlement
| name=Vattiyoorkavu (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Thiruvananthapuram 
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=11.11
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=47187
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=4247
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1041
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=87.39%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628516
| footnotes=
}}

== Vattiyoorkavu (CT) (628516) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Vattiyoorkavu (CT) is a town in the [[Thiruvananthapuram ]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 11.11 sq. km. and harbouring 12187 households with total population of 47187 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 8 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 8 km. Male population is 23116 and female population is 24071. Scheduled Caste population is 5165 and Scheduled Tribes population is 193. Census Location Code of the town is 628516<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 8 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 8 km. Railway station is at Thiruvananthapuram at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1828 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 41235 (87.39%)
* Literate male population: 20403 (88.26%)
* Literate female population: 20832 (86.54%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 650 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thiruvananthapuram (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 10 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 5 km .
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 14 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 18 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Kudappanakkunnu (4 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thiruvananthapuram (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (8 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thiruvananthapuram (8 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thiruvananthapuram (8 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thiruvananthapuram (8 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thiruvananthapuram (8 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Thiruvananthapuram (8 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Thiruvananthapuram (8 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thiruvananthapuram (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Thiruvananthapuram (8 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Thiruvananthapuram (8 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Thiruvananthapuarm (15 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thiruvananthapuram (4 km) .
The nearest government Cinema Theatre is at Thiruvananthapuram  (6 km) .
There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Vattiyoorkavu (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There are 4 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thiruvananthapuram  tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thiruvananthapuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


