{{Infobox settlement
| name=Vayalar (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Alappuzha
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Cherthala
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=14.45
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=24804
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1716
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1064
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=88.74%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628220
| footnotes=
}}

== Vayalar (CT) (628220) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Vayalar (CT) is a town in the [[Cherthala]] taluka of [[Alappuzha]] district with an area of 14.45 sq. km. and harbouring 6168 households with total population of 24804 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Alappuzha]] is at a distance of 24 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 179 km. Male population is 12014 and female population is 12790. Scheduled Caste population is 2360 and Scheduled Tribes population is 85. Census Location Code of the town is 628220<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 24 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 50 km. Railway station is at Cherthala at a distance of 4 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1938 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 28


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 22011 (88.74%)
* Literate male population: 10783 (89.75%)
* Literate female population: 11228 (87.79%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Cherthala (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 18 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Cherthala (5 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (50 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (14 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Alappuzha (20 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Pallippuram (5 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Cherthala (4 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Cherthala (4 km) .
 
The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at Cherthala (4 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Cherthala (5 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Alappuzha  (24 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Cherthala (4 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Alappuzha (15 km) .
There is 1 private stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Vayalar (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir products


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 4 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Alappuzha]]
[[Categories:Towns in Cherthala tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Alappuzha district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


