{{Infobox settlement
| name=Vazhayur (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Malappuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Ernad
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=23.78
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=36909
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1552
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1032
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=84.61%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627466
| footnotes=
}}

== Vazhayur (CT) (627466) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Vazhayur (CT) is a town in the [[Ernad]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 23.78 sq. km. and harbouring 7883 households with total population of 36909 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 30 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 400 km. Male population is 18163 and female population is 18746. Scheduled Caste population is 4555 and Scheduled Tribes population is 104. Census Location Code of the town is 627466<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 30 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 21 km. Railway station is at Feroke at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2200 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 26


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 31229 (84.61%)
* Literate male population: 15556 (85.65%)
* Literate female population: 15673 (83.61%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is  kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Malappuram (30 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 12 km .
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 21 km .
There are 2 Other medical amenitiess in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts onlys in the town. 
 
 
There are 2 private Degree College of Arts and Sciences in the town. 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Feroke (6 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (28 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (21 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kozhikode (21 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Cheleri (11 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Ramanattukara (6 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Kozhikode (21 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Cherukavu (5 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Ramnattukara (6 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Vazhayur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Plywood,Black stone metal,Bricks and tiles


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernad tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Malappuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


