{{Infobox settlement
| name=Veiloor (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Thiruvananthapuram 
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=13.08
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=22816
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1744
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1163
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=82.09%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628510
| footnotes=
}}

== Veiloor (CT) (628510) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Veiloor (CT) is a town in the [[Thiruvananthapuram ]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 13.08 sq. km. and harbouring 5540 households with total population of 22816 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 25 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 25 km. Male population is 10548 and female population is 12268. Scheduled Caste population is 4726 and Scheduled Tribes population is 41. Census Location Code of the town is 628510<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 25 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 25 km. Railway station is at Thiruvananthapuram at a distance of 1 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1828 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 18730 (82.09%)
* Literate male population: 8848 (83.88%)
* Literate female population: 9882 (80.55%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 125 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Attingal (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 18 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 4 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 6 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 5 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 5 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thiruvananthapuram (25 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (25 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (25 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thiruvananthapuram (25 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thiruvananthapuram (25 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thiruvananthapuram (25 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Pallippuram  (5 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Thiruvananthapuram (25 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thiruvananthapuram (25 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Thiruvananthapuram (25 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Attingal (11 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Thiruvananthapuarm (4 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Cinema Theatre is at Thiruvananthapuram  (2 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Veiloor (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir,Cashew nut


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There are 3 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thiruvananthapuram  tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thiruvananthapuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


