{{Infobox settlement
| name=Vellookkara (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Mukundapuram
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=5.92
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=8146
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1376
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1203
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=87.66%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627931
| footnotes=
}}

== Vellookkara (CT) (627931) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Vellookkara (CT) is a town in the [[Mukundapuram]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 5.92 sq. km. and harbouring 2122 households with total population of 8146 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 30 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 284 km. Male population is 3697 and female population is 4449. Scheduled Caste population is 1850 and Scheduled Tribes population is 46. Census Location Code of the town is 627931<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (Population 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 30 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 60 km. Railway station is at Irinjalakuda at a distance of 4 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 7141 (87.66%)
* Literate male population: 3262 (88.23%)
* Literate female population: 3879 (87.19%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Irinjalakuda (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 4 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 3 km .
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 4 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 26 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 20 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 4 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Irinjalakuda (4 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (30 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (28 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (30 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Irinjalakuda (4 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Irinjalakuda (4 km) .
The nearest private Polytechnic is at Kallettumkara (8 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Irinjalakuda (4 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Irinjalakuda (4 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Irinjalakuda (11 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Irinjalakuda (4 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Irinjalakuda (4 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Irinjalakuda (4 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Irinjalakuda (4 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Irinjalakuda (4 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Irinjalakuda (4 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Irinjalakuda (4 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Vellookkara (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Bell metal


== Market and Banking ==


There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Mukundapuram tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


