{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=628037
|native_name=Velloorkunnam (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Muvattupuzha 
|subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Ernakulam]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Muvattupuzha ]]
|Nearest city=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=8.35
|elevation_m=
|population_total=11576
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1386
|population_blank1=5766
|population_blank2=5810
|female_per_1000_male=1007
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Velloorkunnam (CT) (628037) ==

Velloorkunnam (CT) is a town in the [[Muvattupuzha ]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 8.35 sq. km. and harbouring 2760 households with total population of 11576 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 32 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 209 km. Male population is 5766 and female population is 5810. Scheduled Caste population is 416 and Scheduled Tribes population is 48. Census Location Code of the town is 628037<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 45 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 45 km. Railway station is at Ernakulam at a distance of 32 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2915 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 30
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 25


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 9925
* Literate male population: 5028 (87.2%)
* Literate female population: 4897 (84.29%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 600 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Muvattupuzha (11 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 6 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 7 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 28 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 19 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Mulamthuruthy  (4 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (45 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalamassery (40 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (8 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Arakunnam (4 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kochi (45 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kalamassery (14 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Muvattupuzha (5 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Muvattupuzha (6 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Kochi (14 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kothamangalam (6 km) .
There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Muvattupuzha  (4 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Muvattupuzha  (4 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Muvattupuzha (2 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Velloorkunnam (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handicrafts,Readymade dresses


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Muvattupuzha ]]
[[Categories:Ernakulam district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


