{{Infobox settlement
| name=Vellanikkara (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Thrissur
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=4.9
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=6167
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1258
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1057
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=87.84%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627837
| footnotes=
}}

== Vellanikkara (CT) (627837) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Vellanikkara (CT) is a town in the [[Thrissur]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 4.9 sq. km. and harbouring 1578 households with total population of 6167 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 10 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 310 km. Male population is 2997 and female population is 3170. Scheduled Caste population is 367 and Scheduled Tribes population is 5. Census Location Code of the town is 627837<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (Population 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 10 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 90 km. Railway station is at Thrissur at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2764 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 5417 (87.84%)
* Literate male population: 2676 (89.29%)
* Literate female population: 2741 (86.47%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thrissur (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 12 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 28 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 7 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (10 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College - University in the town.The nearest private Degree College - University is at  (0 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (11 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (8 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Kurichikkara  (8 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thrissur (8 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (10 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Thrissur (8 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (8 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Thrissur (2 km) .
The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at Kurichikkara  (8 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Kolazhy  (2 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Vellanikkara (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil,Paddy


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


