{{Infobox settlement
| name=Velur (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Talappilly
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=12.06
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=13928
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1154
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1086
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=86.76%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627778
| footnotes=
}}

== Velur (CT) (627778) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Velur (CT) is a town in the [[Talappilly]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 12.06 sq. km. and harbouring 3440 households with total population of 13928 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 20 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 320 km. Male population is 6675 and female population is 7253. Scheduled Caste population is 1507 and Scheduled Tribes population is 16. Census Location Code of the town is 627778<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (Population 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 20 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 100 km. Railway station is at Wadakkanchery at a distance of 13 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2767 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 34
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 12084 (86.76%)
* Literate male population: 5762 (86.32%)
* Literate female population: 6322 (87.16%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 150 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kunnamkulam (13 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 8 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 30 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 18 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts only in the town. 
 
 
 
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts and Commerce in the town. 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Vellanikkara (27 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (20 km) .
There is 1 private Engineering College in the town.The nearest private Engineering College is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.The nearest private Management Institute is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kunnamkulam (13 km) .
 
There are 3 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Kunnamkulam (8 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (20 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Mundathikode (5 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kunnamkulam (13 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Mundathicode (5 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kunnamkulam (13 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Mundathicode (5 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Velur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Steel products ,Pvc pipe,Water tank


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Talappilly tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


