{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627551
|native_name=Vengara (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Tirurangadi
|subdivision_name2=Malappuram
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Malappuram]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Tirurangadi]]
|Nearest city=[[Malappuram (m + og)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=18.66
|elevation_m=
|population_total=48600
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2604
|population_blank1=22702
|population_blank2=25898
|female_per_1000_male=1140
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Vengara (CT) (627551) ==

Vengara (CT) is a town in the [[Tirurangadi]] taluka of [[Malappuram]] district with an area of 18.66 sq. km. and harbouring 8506 households with total population of 48600 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Malappuram]] is at a distance of 16 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 350 km. Male population is 22702 and female population is 25898. Scheduled Caste population is 2530 and Scheduled Tribes population is 144. Census Location Code of the town is 627551<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Malappuram (m + og) at a distance of 16 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 40 km. Railway station is at Parappanangadi at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1568 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 36
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 29


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 38591
* Literate male population: 18240 (80.35%)
* Literate female population: 20351 (78.58%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Malappuram (16 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 10 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 8 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 15 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Tirurangadi (9 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottakkal  (40 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (18 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College - Others in the town.The nearest private Degree College - Others is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (40 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thenhippalam (18 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thenhippalam (18 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Kottakkal (16 km) .
There is 1 government Vocational Training School in the town. 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Malappuram (16 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Kannamangalam (5 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Tirurangadi (8 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Tirurangadi (8 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Tirurangadi (9 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Urakam (2 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Vengara (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Rice


== Market and Banking ==
There are 7 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Malappuram]]
[[Categories:Tirurangadi]]
[[Categories:Malappuram district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


