{{Infobox settlement
| name=Venganoor (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Thiruvananthapuram 
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=14.05
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=35963
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2559
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1028
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=85.66%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628518
| footnotes=
}}

== Venganoor (CT) (628518) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Venganoor (CT) is a town in the [[Thiruvananthapuram ]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 14.05 sq. km. and harbouring 9277 households with total population of 35963 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 15 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 15 km. Male population is 17728 and female population is 18235. Scheduled Caste population is 6356 and Scheduled Tribes population is 70. Census Location Code of the town is 628518<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 15 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 15 km. Railway station is at Thiruvananthapuram at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1828 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 30807 (85.66%)
* Literate male population: 15377 (86.74%)
* Literate female population: 15430 (84.62%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 200 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Vizhinjam (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 18 km .
There is 1 Alternative Medicine hospital in the town.
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 5 km .
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
There are 2 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing homes in the town.
There are 10 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .


== Facilities ==
There are 3 private Orphanage Homes in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Thiruvananthapuarm (10 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kalliyoor (1 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Thiruvananthapuram (12 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Venganoor (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Handloom


== Market and Banking ==
There are 4 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 7 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.


[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thiruvananthapuram  tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thiruvananthapuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


