{{Infobox settlement
| name=Vengola (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Ernakulam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kunnathunad
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=18.07
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=32697
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1809
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kochi (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=971
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=84.13%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627960
| footnotes=
}}

== Vengola (CT) (627960) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Vengola (CT) is a town in the [[Kunnathunad]] taluka of [[Ernakulam]] district with an area of 18.07 sq. km. and harbouring 7791 households with total population of 32697 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kakkanad]] is at a distance of 34 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 254 km. Male population is 16584 and female population is 16113. Scheduled Caste population is 2189 and Scheduled Tribes population is 184. Census Location Code of the town is 627960<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 34 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 34 km. Railway station is at Aluva at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3656 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 30
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 27507 (84.13%)
* Literate male population: 14233 (85.82%)
* Literate female population: 13274 (82.38%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 50 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Perumbavoor (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 18 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 10 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 4 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 3 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 5 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.

There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 6 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 6 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Aluva (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kochi (34 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Kalady (8 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kalamassery (16 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Aikkaranad (13 km) .
The nearest private Management Institute is at Aikkaranad (13 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Koovappady (8 km) .
 
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Aluva (20 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Perumbavoor (8 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Perumbavoor (4 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.The nearest private stadium is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Perumbavoor (4 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Vengola (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Plywood


== Market and Banking ==


There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.




[[Categories:Ernakulam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kunnathunad tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Ernakulam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


