{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627809
|native_name=Venkitangu (CT)
|subdivision_name3=Chavakkad
|subdivision_name2=Thrissur
|subdivision_name1=Kerala
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[Thrissur]]
|subdivision_type3=[[Chavakkad]]
|Nearest city=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=7.51
|elevation_m=
|population_total=11335
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1509
|population_blank1=5204
|population_blank2=6131
|female_per_1000_male=1178
|native_name_lang=[[Malayalam]]
}}

== Venkitangu (CT) (627809) ==

Venkitangu (CT) is a town in the [[Chavakkad]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 7.51 sq. km. and harbouring 2681 households with total population of 11335 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 20 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 317 km. Male population is 5204 and female population is 6131. Scheduled Caste population is 1303 and Scheduled Tribes population is 36. Census Location Code of the town is 627809<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 20 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 75 km. Railway station is at Guruvayoor at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2770 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 37
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 9753
* Literate male population: 4497 (86.41%)
* Literate female population: 5256 (85.73%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 60 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Guruvayoor (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 20 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 20 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 20 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 20 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 30 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 7 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at Kundazhiyur (3 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (31 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (20 km) .
 
There are 5 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (20 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (20 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Manalur (6 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Mullassery (1 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Venkitangu (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coir,Beedi,Coconut oil


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 5 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.


[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Chavakkad]]
[[Categories:Thrissur district towns]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


