{{Infobox settlement
| name=Venmanad (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thrissur
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Chavakkad
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=5.32
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=8377
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1574
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thrissur (m corp.)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1147
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=84.05%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627807
| footnotes=
}}

== Venmanad (CT) (627807) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Venmanad (CT) is a town in the [[Chavakkad]] taluka of [[Thrissur]] district with an area of 5.32 sq. km. and harbouring 1809 households with total population of 8377 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thrissur]] is at a distance of 22 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 302 km. Male population is 3901 and female population is 4476. Scheduled Caste population is 248 and Scheduled Tribes population is 10. Census Location Code of the town is 627807<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (Population 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thrissur (m corp.) at a distance of 22 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 81 km. Railway station is at Guruvayoor at a distance of 7 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2770 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 37
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 7041 (84.05%)
* Literate male population: 3281 (84.11%)
* Literate female population: 3760 (84.0%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 600 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Guruvayoor (7 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 25 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 25 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 2 km .
There are 2 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 25 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 25 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 25 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 31 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 25 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 11 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kandanassery (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thrissur (22 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Mannuthy (30 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thrissur (22 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thrissur (22 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thrissur (22 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thrissur (222 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Mullassery (5 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Thrissur (22 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thrissur (22 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest private Orphanage Home is at Pavaratty (2 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thrissur (22 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Thrissur (25 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Thrissur (25 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Pavaratty (2 km) .
The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at Pavaratty (2 km) .
The nearest government Public Library is at Pavaratty (4 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Venmanad (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Coconut oil,Coir,Copra


== Market and Banking ==

There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.





[[Categories:Thrissur]]
[[Categories:Towns in Chavakkad tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thrissur district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


