{{Infobox settlement
| name=Vijayapuram (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kottayam
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Kottayam
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=11.79
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=29248
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=2480
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Alappuzha (m + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1068
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=90.47%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628175
| footnotes=
}}

== Vijayapuram (CT) (628175) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Vijayapuram (CT) is a town in the [[Kottayam]] taluka of [[Kottayam]] district with an area of 11.79 sq. km. and harbouring 7425 households with total population of 29248 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kottayam]] is at a distance of 4 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 159 km. Male population is 14137 and female population is 15111. Scheduled Caste population is 2507 and Scheduled Tribes population is 109. Census Location Code of the town is 628175<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Alappuzha (m + og) at a distance of 44 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kochi (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 62 km. Railway station is at Kottayam at a distance of 4 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2913 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 38
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 27


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 26462 (90.47%)
* Literate male population: 12849 (90.89%)
* Literate female population: 13613 (90.09%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Kottayam (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 17 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 5 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There are 3 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 16 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 12 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town.There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Nattakam (8 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kottayam (4 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Athirampuzha  (5 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Arpookara (11 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Pampady (8 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Athirampuzha (12 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Nattakam (8 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Pampady (8 km) .
There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 private other educational facilities in the town.The nearest private other educational facilities is at  (0 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Kottayam (4 km) .
There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.The nearest private Old Age Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Kottayam (4 km) .
The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at Kottayam (5 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.There are 7 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Vijayapuram (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Tyre, milk products,Treated rubber wood


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kottayam]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kottayam tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kottayam district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


