{{Infobox settlement
| name=Vilappil (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Neyyattinkara
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=21.36
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=36212
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1695
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1058
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=84.75%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628539
| footnotes=
}}

== Vilappil (CT) (628539) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Vilappil (CT) is a town in the [[Neyyattinkara]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 21.36 sq. km. and harbouring 9515 households with total population of 36212 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 10 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 10 km. Male population is 17595 and female population is 18617. Scheduled Caste population is 2655 and Scheduled Tribes population is 236. Census Location Code of the town is 628539<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 10 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 10 km. Railway station is at Thiruvananthapuram at a distance of 10 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1820 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 30691 (84.75%)
* Literate male population: 15195 (86.36%)
* Literate female population: 15496 (83.24%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 780 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 13 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 14 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 13 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 13 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 13 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 13 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 13 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 13 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 8 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
The nearest government [[Secondary School]] is at Kulathummal (2 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kanjiramkulam (15 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thiruvananthapuram (20 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at Thiruvananthapuram (10 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Thiruvananthapuarm (3 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Malayinkeezhu (4 km) .
The nearest government Cinema Theatre is at Malayinkeezhu  (4 km) .
There are 6 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 3 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Vilappil (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Blood bag (penpol)


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Neyyattinkara tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thiruvananthapuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


