{{Infobox settlement
| name=Vilavoorkkal (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Thiruvananthapuram
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Neyyattinkara
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=10.08
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=31761
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=3150
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) ]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1029
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=85.62%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=628542
| footnotes=
}}

== Vilavoorkkal (CT) (628542) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Vilavoorkkal (CT) is a town in the [[Neyyattinkara]] taluka of [[Thiruvananthapuram]] district with an area of 10.08 sq. km. and harbouring 8275 households with total population of 31761 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuarm]] is at a distance of 15 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 15 km. Male population is 15647 and female population is 16114. Scheduled Caste population is 2579 and Scheduled Tribes population is 68. Census Location Code of the town is 628542<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og)  at a distance of 15 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Thiruvananthapuarm (m corp. + og) at a distance of 15 km. Railway station is at Thiruvananthapuram at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 1828 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 27195 (85.62%)
* Literate male population: 13594 (86.88%)
* Literate female population: 13601 (84.4%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 6 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 15 km .
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 14 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 13 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town.There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There is 1 private Middle School in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Kanjiramkulam (13 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Engineering College is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
 
The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government other educational facilities is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .


== Facilities ==
The nearest government Orphanage Home is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Thiruvananthapuram (15 km) .
The nearest government Old Age Home is at Thiruvananthapuarm (15 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Malayinkeezhu (3 km) .
The nearest government Cinema Theatre is at Malayinkeezhu  (4 km) .
There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Vilavoorkkal (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Match box,Handloom cloth


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Thiruvananthapuram]]
[[Categories:Towns in Neyyattinkara tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Thiruvananthapuram district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


