{{Infobox settlement
| name=Villiappally (CT)
| native_name=
| native_name_lang=
| other_name=
| nickname=
| settlement_type=Town
| image_skyline=
| image_alt=
| image_caption=
| pushpin_map=India Kerala
| pushpin_label_position=right
| pushpin_map_alt=
| pushpin_map_caption=Location in Kerala, India
| latd=
| latm=
| lats=
| latNS=
| longd=
| longm=
| longs=
| longEW=
| coordinates_display=inline,title
| subdivision_type=Country
| subdivision_name={{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1=[[States and territories of India|State]]
| subdivision_name1=Kerala 
| subdivision_type2=[[List of districts of India|District]]
| subdivision_name2=Kozhikode
| subdivision_type3=Tahsil
| subdivision_name3=Vadakara
| website=
| established_title=<!-- Established -->
| established_date=
| founder=
| named_for=
| government_type=
| governing_body=
| unit_pref=Metric
| area_footnotes=
| area_rank=
| area_total_km2=17.35
| elevation_footnotes=
| elevation_m=
| population_total=34502
| population_as_of=2011
| population_rank=
| population_density_km2=1988
| population_demonym=
| population_footnotes=
| demographics_type1=Languages=
| demographics1_title1=Official=
| demographics1_info1=[[Malayalam language|Malayalam]]
| timezone1=[[Indian Standard Time|IST]]
| utc_offset1==+5:30
| postal_code_type=[[Postal Index Number|PIN]]
| postal_code=
| area_code_type=Telephone code
| area_code=
| registration_plate=
| blank1_name_sec1=Nearest city
| blank1_info_sec1=[[Kozhikode (m corp. + og)]]
| blank2_name_sec1=[[Human sex ratio|Sex ratio]]
| blank2_info_sec1=1163
| blank3_name_sec1=Literacy
| blank3_info_sec1=84.6%
| blank1_name_sec2=[[2011 Census of India|2011 census]] code
| blank1_info_sec2=627364
| footnotes=
}}

== Villiappally (CT) (627364) ==

== Demography & Population ==

Villiappally (CT) is a town in the [[Vadakara]] taluka of [[Kozhikode]] district with an area of 17.35 sq. km. and harbouring 7829 households with total population of 34502 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[Kozhikode]] is at a distance of 60 km. The state headquarter [[Thiruvananthapuram]] is at a distance of 480 km. Male population is 15948 and female population is 18554. Scheduled Caste population is 692 and Scheduled Tribes population is 75. Census Location Code of the town is 627364<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (Population 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 60 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is Kozhikode (m corp. + og) at a distance of 60 km. Railway station is at Vadakara at a distance of 11 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2704 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 32
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 29188 (84.6%)
* Literate male population: 13747 (86.2%)
* Literate female population: 15441 (83.22%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
The capacity of the water supply system is 100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at Vadakara (11 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 10 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There are 5 Family Welfare Centres in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at  km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 22 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 15 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 7 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 18 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Primary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.The nearest private Middle School is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town.The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at  (0 km) .
 
 
 
 
 
The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at Onchiam (14 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - Law is at Kozhikode (60 km) .
The nearest government Degree College - University is at Thenhippalam (57 km) .
 
The nearest government Medical College is at Kozhikode (60 km) .
The nearest private Engineering College is at Palayad (10 km) .
The nearest government Management Institute is at Kozhikode (60 km) .
The nearest government Polytechnic is at Vadakara (11 km) .
 
There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at Vadakara (11 km) .
The nearest private other educational facilities is at Vadakara (6 km) .


== Facilities ==
There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.The nearest private Orphanage Home is at  (0 km) .
The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at Vadakara (11 km) .
The nearest private Old Age Home is at Vadakara  (5 km) .
The nearest government stadium is at Vadakara (5 km) .
There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at  (0 km) .
There are 4 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at  (0 km) .
There are 8 government Public Librarys in the town.The nearest private Public Library is at  (0 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Villiappally (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): Copra


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 6 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.




[[Categories:Kozhikode]]
[[Categories:Towns in Vadakara tehsil)]]
[[Categories:Towns in Kozhikode district)]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


